 * Request a Brochure [/brochure-request/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]

Skip to main content
/
Back
 * Our Programs
    * The EF Gap Year
      [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
    * Semester Programs
      [/programs/semester/]
   
   
 * Admissions
    * Gap Planning Roadmap
      [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
    * Program Fees
      [/program-fees/]
    * Scholarships & Fundraising
      [/scholarships-fundraising/]
   
   
 * Resources
    * FAQs
      [/faq/]
    * For Parents
      [/gap-year-info-for-parents/]
    * For Educators & Counselors
      [/for-educators-counselors/]
    * College Deferral Guide
      [/college-deferral-guide/]
    * Earn College Credit
      [/earn-college-credit/]
    * Alumni Community
      [/alumni/]
    * Attend a Webinar
      [/gap-year-webinars/]
    * Gap Year Blog
      [/blog/]
   
   
 * About Us
    * Why Choose EF
      [/why-ef/]
    * Our Mission & Philosophy
      [/who-we-are/]
    * What is a Gap Year?
      [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
    * Safety & Support
      [/safety-and-support/]
    * Responsible Travel
      [/responsible-travel/]
    * Meet The Team
      [/meet-the-team/]
   
   

Get started [/next-steps/]
Menu

PROGRAM GUIDE:


EF GAP YEAR 2025–2026

SESSION 1: SEPTEMBER 10, 2025 - APRIL 28, 2026


ITINERARY OVERVIEW

This itinerary is subject to change due to availability and local conditions at the time of departure.

EUROPE

Week 1: London, England

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: EXPERIENCING HISTORY, SCIENCE, AND BUSINESS IN LONDON

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: CREATING COMMUNITY AND EXPRESSING IDENTITY IN A GLOBAL CONTEXT

Day 1: Wednesday, September 10
Departures
Depart from your home city to head to the first stop in your EF Gap Year: London. As you embark on your journey, make sure you
have everything you need in your carry-on bag, including your passport, any necessary medications, some snacks, and a change of
clothes.
Meals included: Some meals may be included on your flight; check directly with your airline for more information.

Day 2: Thursday, September 11
Arrive in London
Arrive in London, where you’ll be greeted by EF staff after you’ve gone through passport control, claimed your bag, and exited the
security area. EF staff will take you to your hotel, where you’ll meet up with other members of your group. Start to explore
London with the help of your EF Tour Director, who will help you start to get your bearings in the city. Join your group for a
welcome dinner to kick off the start of your time together!
Meals included: Dinner

Day 3: Friday, September 12
Orientation at Regent's University London
You are about to start off on an epic journey alongside your EF Gap Year cohort. Spend a day reflecting on your goals, getting to
know your peers, and preparing for your semester together with Orientation at the beautiful Regent's University London. Based in
the heart of Regent's Park, the university is one of the UK's most respected schools and the most internationally diverse with
students from over 140 countries. In addition to utilizing their campus for the day, you'll explore the surrounding picturesque
park as you soak in its skyline views from Primrose Hill.
Meals included: All

Day 4: Saturday, September 13
London’s History & Culture
Get to know London’s past and present with a guided walking tour of the city and a visit to the British Museum, where you’ll turn
a critical lens on Britain’s colonial history.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 5: Sunday, September 14
Free Day
Enjoy your first of many free days you will have while on program! These days are a great way to make sure you’re making your
program your very own. Explore a personal passion, hang out with new friends, or venture outside the city for the day. You can
also use this day to rest and recharge – it’s always important to take care of your physical and mental health. Your EF Tour
Director may offer additional activities that you can choose to do.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 6: Monday, September 15
Visit with Founder of an Innovative Business
Meet with a business in London where you’ll learn about the process of starting a company and running a successful business. As an
example, past groups have met with the founder of the company Pavegen, [https://www.pavegen.com/] an innovative business building
sustainable energy solutions with its award-winning technology that uses foot traffic to generate energy.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 7: Tuesday, September 16
Science, Technology, and Cryptology at Bletchley Park and National Museum of Computing
Spend the day at Bletchley Park, the home of Britain’s famed WWII codebreakers. Learn about the history of the science and
technology that went into their work during WWII and do a hands-on activity that gets you exploring how these technologies are
evolving into the future. In addition, you'll pop over to the National Museum of Computing, which features the world's largest
collection of working historic computers!
Meals included: Breakfast

Week 2: Paris, France

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: APPRECIATING IMPRESSIONIST ART AND MODERN CHALLENGES IN FRANCE

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: UNCOVERING YOUR CHALLENGE ZONE AND SETTING BOUNDARIES

Day 8: Wednesday, September 17
Train to Paris & Walking Tour
In the morning, catch the high-speed Eurostar rail to travel underwater through the English Channel, where you’ll arrive in Paris
in just over two hours. Once you arrive in Paris, get your bearings in the City of Light with a walking tour from your Tour
Director. End the day with a delicious group dinner.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 9: Thursday, September 18
Black History & Culture in Paris
In the morning, take a guided tour focusing on the Black experience in Paris. In the afternoon, cruise down the Seine River to
take in the sights of Paris from a new perspective before heading to another group dinner.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 10: Friday, September 19
Visit to Versailles
Spend the day outside the hustle and bustle of Paris at the renowned UNESCO World Heritage site of Versailles, once home to French
royals like Marie Antoinette. Take in the opulent architecture, the dazzling hall of mirrors, and the beautifully landscaped
garden as you step back in time.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 11: Saturday, September 20
Visit The Louvre
Immerse yourself in one of the world’s most impressive art collections. Get lost in the endless exhibitions and make sure to leave
time to see the Mona Lisa!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 12: Sunday, September 21
Free Day
Enjoy a free day in Paris to explore the city on your own time! This is a great day to explore your own interests and passions,
whether that’s having a picnic in one of Paris’s iconic parks, window shopping down the streets of Le Marais, visiting museums, or
sampling all the French pastries you can get your hands on. It’s also important to rest along your journey, so you may enjoy
spending some time catching up on sleep, journaling, catching up with friends and family back home, or exercising.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 13: Monday, September 22
Each cohort will have a different activity scheduled during the next two days.

Blue Cohort: Art & History at Monet’s Giverny
Visit the picturesque village of Giverny, which inspired the famous Impressionist painter Claude Monet. Visit his former
residence, where you can explore his charming pink house and stroll through the meticulously designed gardens, including the
iconic water lily pond that inspired so many of his paintings.
Meals included: Breakfast

Pink Cohort: Visit an NGO & Painting Class
Paris is a hub for many NGOs (non-governmental organizations) that tackle some of the biggest global challenges. Visit with an
organization called "Serve the City Paris" to learn about some of the issues that are impacting France and how they relate to
larger global issues. Finally to round out your time in Paris, take all that you’ve learned, seen, and experienced and channel
that inspiration into a painting workshop, where you’ll emerge with your own work of art.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 14: Tuesday, September 23
Blue Cohort: Visit to an NGO & Painting Class
Paris is a hub for many NGOs (non-governmental organizations) that tackle some of the biggest global challenges. Visit with an
organization called "Serve the City Paris" to learn about some of the issues that are impacting France and how they relate to
larger global issues. Finally to round out your time in Paris, take all that you’ve learned, seen, and experienced and channel
that inspiration into a painting workshop, where you’ll emerge with your own work of art.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Pink Cohort: Art & History at Monet’s Giverny
Visit the picturesque village of Giverny, which inspired the famous Impressionist painter Claude Monet. Visit his former
residence, where you can explore his charming pink house and stroll through the meticulously designed gardens, including the
iconic water lily pond that inspired so many of his paintings.
Meals included: Breakfast

Week 3: Florence, Italy

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: TASTING THE FOOD AND UNDERSTANDING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF AGRICULTURE OF ITALY

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: MANAGING YOUR TIME AND ENERGY

Day 15: Wednesday, September 24
Fly to Florence
Fly from Paris to Florence, Italy! Once you arrive, spend some time with your Tour Director exploring this city with a walking
tour. This hub of the Tuscan region is home to winding cobblestone streets, magnificent buildings like the Florence Cathedral and
the Ponte Vecchio, and some of Italy’s best food.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 16: Thursday, September 25
Food Tour & Cooking Class in Florence
Spend a day exploring the culinary wonders of Florence! Start with a food tour, where you’ll get to see the city through the lens
of food and cuisine. Then put your own skills to the test as you do an authentic Italian cooking class.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 17: Friday, September 26
Day Trip to Rome
Take advantage of Italy’s interconnected rail system to travel from Florence to Rome, Italy’s capital city. Join your TD on a
walking tour of the city as you take in the city's must-see sights, like the Pantheon, Trevi Fountain, and Piazza di Spagna. In
the evening, head back to your home base in Florence.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 18: Saturday, September 27
Free Day
Enjoy a free day to take in Florence at your own pace or spend some time to rest up after your big day in Rome. Florence is a
great city to wander around, explore, shop, eat, and take in the views.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 19: Sunday, September 28
Day Trip to Tuscany: Siena & San Gimignano
Take a day trip from Florence out into the charming towns and countryside of Tuscany.  In Siena, a Medieval walled city, you can
stroll through the enchanting streets and visit the Piazza del Campo, where the historic Palio horse race takes place. In San
Gimignano, renowned for its iconic medieval towers, explore narrow cobblestone streets, savor local foods, and take in panoramic
views of the Tuscan countryside from the town’s hilltop perch.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 20: Monday, September 29
Free Day
Enjoy another free day to explore Florence at your own pace or rest. Your Tour Director may have optional excursions or activities
that you can choose to join.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 21: Tuesday, September 30
Deep Dive into Italian Olive Oil
Spend a day diving deep into the production of one of Italy’s most famous exports: olive oil. Learn about how it is produced, from
how the olives are grown to how they are processed and refined to create a top-quality product. And sample some yourself!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Week 4: Zurich, Switzerland

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: SWITZERLAND IN THE GLOBAL ECONOMY: EXPLORING THE GLOBAL ECONOMY THROUGH TOURISM AND BANKING
IN SWITZERLAND

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: RESOLVING CONFLICTS

Day 22: Wednesday, October 1
Train to Zurich
Take a train from Italy across its northern border to Switzerland, and arrive in Zurich. Zurich is Switzerland’s largest city, a
cosmopolitan hub nestled within the picturesque Swiss mountains and lakes. Settle into the city and start exploring its charming
streets and Alpine views.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 23: Thursday, October 2
Visit the EF Office & Boat Ride on Lake Zurich
Spend your morning visiting EF’s Global Headquarters in Zurich. Located in the old Stock Exchange building in Zurich, the office
will give you a peek behind the curtain of the travel industry. Later in the day, board a boat to cruise around Lake Zurich to
take in the cityscapes and views of the Alps.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 24: Friday, October 3
Finance Industry Engagement
In addition to its picturesque views and charming streets, Zurich is also a global financial hub. Meet with a local leader in the
financial industry and learn about what a career in global finance can look like.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 25: Saturday, October 4
Free Day
Enjoy a free day to explore Zurich or the surrounding areas. There are many nearby natural excursions for you to enjoy, including
water activities or swimming in Lake Zurich, hikes in the nearby Alps, and visits to nearby towns. As always, make sure you’re
using your free time to relax and restore as well!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 26: Sunday, October 5
Lucerne & Excursion to the Alps
Travel by train, boat and cable car to reach the top of one of Switzerland’s most beautiful mountains, Mt. Rigi. Take in the
panoramic views of the mountains and lakes around you! Visit the city of Lucerne and explore its medieval architecture and
fairy-tale vibes.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 27: Monday, October 6
Free Day
Enjoy your second free day in Zurich. Your Tour Director may offer an optional activity or excursion on this day as well.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 28: Tuesday, October 7
UNESCO Entlebuch Biosphere
The UNESCO Entlebuch Biosphere is a 400 square kilometer area dedicated to conserving the plant and animal biodiversity of the
area, which encompasses lush meadows, wetlands, forests, and rugged mountains. While there, you will unpack the importance of
sustainable development and conservation with experts in the field.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Week 5: Munich, Germany

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: UNDERSTANDING THE PAST, PRESENT, AND PROGRESS OF GERMANY

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: ADAPTING AND BUILDING RESILIENCY

Day 29: Wednesday, October 8
Bus to Munich
From Zurich, head to Munich, the capital of the Bavarian region. Take a walking tour of this vibrant city known for its rich
cultural heritage, historic architecture, and Oktoberfest celebrations.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 30: Thursday, October 9
Explore Munich and Visit BMW Museum
See the sights of Munich, including the extraordinary Nymphenburg Palace. Learn about the world-famous German engineering and car
manufacturing industry with entrance to the BMW Museum.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 31: Friday, October 10
Visit to the Dachau Concentration Camp Memorial
Visiting the Dachau Concentration Camp Memorial is a solemn and sobering experience where you’ll learn about the atrocities of
World War II. As you walk through the preserved barracks, view the exhibitions, and reflect in the memorial site, you’ll gain a
profound insight into the suffering endured by countless innocent victims, making it a meaningful historical site to pay tribute
to and remember.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 32: Saturday, October 11
Free Day
Enjoy a free day to rest and explore Munich on your own. There is lots to do within Munich itself, or opt to take a day trip to
out to the medieval town of Regensburg or across the border into Austria to visit Salzburg.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 33: Sunday, October 12
Free Day
Enjoy another free day in Munich to explore on your own or rest and recharge.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 34: Monday, October 13
Visit an Engineering Company
Take a peak inside Germany's engineering industry with a visit to Hyve, an innovative engineering company at the forefront of AI.
The experience kicks off with a tour of the "Haus der Innovation," followed by a dialogue on real-world AI cases and how this
cutting-edge technology is transforming industries.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 35: Tuesday, October 14
Neuschwanstein Castle
Spend a day at the fairy-tale Neuschwanstein Castle, nestled in the Bavarian Alps. Take in its stunning architecture and
breathtaking views. This castle was the inspiration for Disney’s Sleeping Beauty Castle, and you’ll see why it’s so magical as you
visit.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Week 6: Prague, Czech Republic

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: EASTERN EUROPE: EXAMINING EASTERN EUROPEAN ARTS, CULTURE, AND HISTORY IN PRAGUE

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: REFLECTING ON THE PAST AND PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE

Day 36: Wednesday, October 15
Bus to Prague
Venture into Eastern Europe as you travel by bus from Munich to Prague, the capital of the Czech Republic.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 37: Thursday, October 16
Guided Sightseeing Prague
Take a guided walking tour around the neighborhoods of Prague. Stroll through the labyrinthine streets of the Old Town, take in
the Gothic and Baroque architecture, and admire the famous Charles Bridge. Take in the Bohemian elegance of this cultural hub as
you see some of the literary and musical history of the city come to life.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 38: Friday, October 17
Prague’s Cold War History & Classical Concert
Spend the day on a special day of exploration of Prague’s Cold War history. Learn about the city’s not-so-distant past as part of
communist Czechoslovakia by learning about what life was like during this time period. Visit some of the sites in the city where
you can still see the Soviet past of the city on display. In the evening, take in another important piece of Prague’s history and
culture – music & the arts – with a visit to a classical concert.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 39: Saturday, October 18
Free Day
Enjoy a free day to explore Prague on your own, or take some much-needed time to rest and restore.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 40: Sunday, October 19
Day Trip to Kutna Hora
Take a day trip to Kutna Hora, a UNESCO World Heritage site known for its historical and architectural treasures. Visit the Sedlec
Ossuary, an eerie chapel adorned with human bones, as well as St. Barbara’s Church, a masterpiece of Gothic architecture. Stroll
around the medieval town center to get a feel for what Eastern European life has looked like over the centuries.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 41: Monday, October 20
Free Day
Enjoy a free day to explore Prague on your own. Your Tour Director may also have additional optional activities that you can take
part in.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 42: Tuesday, October 21
Mid-Semester Reflection
Today marks the mid-point of your fall semester. Spend a day with your cohort intentionally reflecting on what you’ve been through
so far. How have you already changed? Are you on track to meet your goals? What have been some of your challenges and successes
over the program so far? Spend time together to unpack all of this and more so that you’re set up for success as you transition
across continents for the second half of your semester!
Meals included: All

AUSTRALIA

Week 7: Melbourne, Australia

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: URBAN EXPLORATION IN MELBOURNE: LEARNING ABOUT URBAN ART AND FOOD IN MELBOURNE

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: DISCOVERING YOUR PASSION AND PURPOSE

Day 43: Wednesday, October 22
Fly to Australia
Start your journey down under as you travel from Europe to Australia. It’s a long journey, so make sure to be prepared with all
your typical carry-on items, including a change of clothes, your medications, a power bank, and your toiletries. You may want to
pack some extra snacks as well!
Meals included: Breakfast; some meals may also be included on the flight

Day 44: Thursday, October 23
Arrive in Australia
Land in Melbourne, your first stop in Australia! Your Australian Tour Director will be awaiting you at the airport. Once you
arrive, get some rest before hitting the ground running the next day.
Meals included: Dinner; some meals may also be included on the flight

Day 45: Friday, October 24
Street Art & Laneways Tour
Do a guided tour of some of Melbourne’s iconic street art. Learn about the creators of these works of art and practice your own
skills!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 46: Saturday, October 25
Penguins on Phillip Island
Visit Phillip Island, known for its stunning coastal landscapes and diverse wildlife. Catch the famous Penguin Parade, where
penguins parade to the shore.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 47: Sunday, October 26
Free Day
Enjoy a free day to explore Melbourne at your own pace.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 48: Monday, October 27
Food Tour
Melbourne is known internationally as a foodie city. Learn about the city’s food culture with a food tour led by your Tour
Director. They'll take you through the popular stalls and cafes of Queen Victoria Market.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 49: Tuesday, October 28
Day Trip: Great Ocean Road and Animal Sanctuary
Get ready for a long road trip! Spend a day on one of the world’s most scenic coastal drives, the Great Ocean Road. While this
will be a long drive and a good amount of bus time, you'll enjoy spectacular views of the ocean, rugged cliffs, and natural
landmarks. Take a walk on the wild side of the Great Ocean Road by immersing yourself in a walk through a wildlife sanctuary.
While exploring the magical Otways bushland, you’ll discover lush vegetation and spectacular ocean vistas. Keep your eyes out for
potential koalas, potoroos, bandicoots and many other animals!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 50: Wednesday, October 29
Free Day
Enjoy another free day to explore Melbourne on your own. Your Tour Director may also have optional activities that you can
participate in.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Week 8: Cairns, Australia

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: DIVING INTO ABORIGINAL CULTURE AND CONSERVATION IN AUSTRALIA

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: LEADING BY EXAMPLE

Day 51: Thursday, October 30
Fly to Cairns
Fly from Melbourne to Cairns, known as the gateway to the Great Barrier Reef. When you arrive in Cairns, check into your hotel and
grab dinner with your group as you prepare for another exciting city "down under."
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 52: Friday, October 31
Mossman Gorge Dreamtime Walk
Visit Mossman Gorge, where you’ll take a Dreamtime Walk through the rainforest, led by the local Indigenous people. Your guide
will lead you through stunning, lush rainforest, observing traditional huts along the way. Discover different traditions and maybe
a delicious treat at the end!
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch

Day 53: Saturday, November 1
Free Day
Enjoy a free day in Cairns to rest, relax, or explore.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 54: Sunday, November 2
Snorkel the Great Barrier Reef
Spend a day on the water doing guided snorkeling with a marine biologist seeing the amazing plants and animals in the Great
Barrier Reef! The Great Barrier Reef is the world’s largest coral reef system, and it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site renowned for
its biodiversity, with thousands of species of fish, coral, and marine life.
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch

Day 55: Monday, November 3
Free Day
Enjoy another free day to explore Cairns or take an adventure out of the city. Your Tour Director may have optional activities
that you can join.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 56: Tuesday, November 4
Explore Cairns and Esplanade Lagoon
Explore the city of Cairns. Take in the Esplanade, the waterfront area with a picturesque boardwalk, and visit (and take a dip
in!) the lagoon-style saltwater swimming pool. Get a feel for Cairns’ relaxed atmosphere, natural beauty, and adventurous spirit.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Week 9: Sydney, Australia

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: BALANCING TECHNOLOGY AND URBAN SUSTAINABILITY IN SYDNEY

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: EXPLORING INDEPENDENTLY


Day 57: Wednesday, November 5
Fly to Sydney
Fly with your group from Cairns to Sydney. Explore on foot this vibrant city, known for its yacht-studded harbor, superb beaches,
and the iconic Opera House with its towering sail structure.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 58: Thursday, November 6
Sydney’s Streets, Gardens, and Harbour
Once you’ve arrived in Sydney, your Tour Director will lead a bus tour around the city to see some of its most iconic sites like
the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge. You’ll also start to explore the unique natural environments of Australia
with a visit to the Royal Botanical Garden. The Royal Botanic Garden in Sydney is a stunning 30-hectare oasis located in the heart
of the city, adjacent to the iconic Sydney Opera House and overlooking Sydney Harbour. Lastly, set sail on a Sydney Harbour cruise
to enjoy breathtaking views of the Sydney skyline.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 59: Friday, November 7
Technology in Sydney
Dive into the exciting world of robotics with a hands-on 2-hour workshop at the University of Technology, Sydney. Take a guided
tour of their futuristic buildings, see their ProtoSpace, and get insider tips on breaking into the robotics and start-up scene.
Wrap it up with a lively Q&A to fuel your big ideas and next steps in tech innovation.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 60: Saturday, November 8
Free Time
Enjoy some free time to relax and explore Sydney on your own. There are lots of things to do with free time in Sydney. If you’re
an ocean person, you can enjoy coastal walks to take in the views, or you can hang out on one of Sydney’s beautiful beaches. You
can also visit some of Australia’s top cultural sites, like the Australian Museum or the Museum of Contemporary Art Australia.
There are lots of nearby opportunities for other outdoor activities, shopping, or dining.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 61: Sunday, November 9
Ferry to Manly Beach & Surf Lesson
No trip to Australia is complete without hitting the waves! Take a ferry to Manly Beach, which provides lovely views of the Sydney
skyline – and opportunities to spot marine life. Once at Manly Beach, hit the waves with a surf lesson!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 62: Monday, November 10
Permaculture in Australia
Spend a day exploring permaculture in Australia. Visit a permaculture farm and learn about the techniques, philosophies, and work
that goes into creating and sustaining a permaculture farm.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 63: Tuesday, November 11
Free Day
Enjoy another free day in Sydney. Your Field Director may have suggestions or optional activities you can participate in during
your free time.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

THAILAND

Week 10: Bangkok, Thailand

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: APPRECIATING CULTURE AND RELIGION IN SOUTHEAST ASIA

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: COMMUNICATING INTERCULTURALLY

Day 64: Wednesday, November 12
Fly to Bangkok
Fly from Sydney to Bangkok, Thailand as you enter your third continent of the semester – Asia.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 65: Thursday, November 13
Explore Bangkok
Explore Bangkok on a guided tour, including the Buddhist temple complexes of Wat Arun and Wat Pho, as well as the Grand Palace.
Get a taste of Thai cuisine with a welcome dinner with your group.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 66: Friday, November 14
Floating Markets
Wake up early to make it to see one of Thailand’s iconic floating markets. You’ll see a spectacular array of local foods and other
goods for sale — many from vendors rowing boats through the canals of the market.

One group will spend the afternoon learning how to make authentic Thai food with a cooking class and have an added lunch!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 67: Saturday, November 15
Free Time
Spend a free day exploring all Bangkok has to offer at your own pace. Explore the city’s winding streets, hyper-modern malls, or
beautiful temples.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 68: Sunday, November 16
Organic Farm & Chinatown Walking Tour
During the day, visit an organic farm to learn about agricultural practices in Thailand. Once the sun sets, explore the streets of
Bangkok’s Chinatown neighborhood, one of the best places in the city to taste street food.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 69: Monday, November 17
Local NGO Visit
Bangkok is a hub in the Asia-Pacific region and across the globe for NGOs – non-governmental organizations that work on solving
social and economic issues. Visit a local organization and meet with leaders to understand the issues they are solving and what
goes into running a successful NGO.

Now it's the second group's time to learn how to make authentic Thai food with a cooking class this afternoon!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Week 11: Krabi, Thailand

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: EMBRACING COASTAL ECOLOGY AND SUSTAINABILITY IN THAILAND

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: CONNECTING WITH YOUR ENVIRONMENT


Since our service partners can only accommodate groups in small numbers, your itinerary will vary based on cohort when at Nature
Mind-ED.

Day 70: Tuesday, November 18
Fly to Krabi
Fly from Bangkok to Krabi, in the southern part of Thailand.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 71: Wednesday, November 19
Blue Cohort: Service Learning Project with Nature Mind-ED
Enjoy the first of three days spent participating in service learning with NatureMind-ED [https://naturemind-ed.com/about/], an
organization focused on sustainability and environmental conservation. While there, you’ll participate in activities like a
permaculture and sustainable living workshop, work on a coral reef restoration project, and work on mangrove conservation and
caring for the dugong population. Explore the area through hikes and a visit to a bat cave.
Meals included: All

Pink Cohort: Longboat Island Trip
While one cohort is participating in service, you will enjoy a day on the water exploring the islands near Krabi on a long tail
boat, the traditional boat of the area. Soak up the sun, beaches, and stunning scenery!
Meals included: Breakfast

Days 72-73: Thursday, November 20 - Friday, November 21
Blue Cohort: Nature Mind-ED Continued
Roll up your sleeves and continue digging deeper with your service project at Nature Mind-ED.
Meals included: All

Pink Cohort: Free Days
Enjoy two free days where you can lounge on the beaches of Krabi!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 74: Saturday, November 22
Blue Cohort: Free Day
After a few days of hard work, relax and soak up the sun on the beaches of Krabi!
Meals included: Breakfast

Pink Cohort: Nature Mind-ED
Start your three day adventure participating in service learning work with NatureMind-ED [https://naturemind-ed.com/about/], an
organization focused on sustainability and environmental conservation. While there, you’ll participate in activities like a
permaculture and sustainable living workshop, work on a coral reef restoration project, and work on mangrove conservation and
caring for the dugong population. Explore the area through hikes and a visit to a bat cave.
Meals included: All

Day 75: Sunday, November 23
Blue Cohort: Longboat Island Trip
Spend a day on the water exploring the islands near Krabi on a long tail boat, the traditional boat of the area. Soak up the sun,
beaches, and stunning scenery!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Pink Cohort: Nature Mind-ED Continued
Now it's your turn to roll up your sleeves and continue diving into your service projects at Nature Mind-ED.
Meals Included: All

Day 76: Monday, November 24
Blue Cohort: Free Day
Enjoy another free day to rest and relax on the beautiful beaches of Krabi!
Meals included: Breakfast

Pink Cohort: Nature Mind-ED Continued
Be sure to make the most of your final day at Nature Mind-ED before heading to Koh Lanta tomorrow!
Meals included: All

Week 12: Koh Lanta, Thailand

🌍 GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE & ACTION THEME: ENGAGING IN ANIMAL CONSERVATION AND NON-PROFIT MANAGEMENT IN KOH LANTA

🤸‍♀️ GROWTH MINDSET & PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT THEME: NAVIGATING TRANSITIONS

Since our service partners can only accommodate groups in small numbers, your itinerary will vary based on cohort when at
Following Giants.

Day 77: Tuesday, November 25
Transfer to Koh Lanta
Both cohorts travel from Krabi to the nearby island of Koh Lanta. Enjoy some free time to explore the island and relax.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 78: Wednesday, November 26
Blue Cohort: Service Learning Project with Following Giants
Participate in a service project with Following Giants [https://www.followinggiants.net/], an organization dedicated to improving
the habitat and welfare of elephants. Both EF and Following Giants are partnered with the World Animal Protection, ensuring that
any activity you are doing is safe and providing a healthy environment for animals. There are unfortunately many tourist
organizations that exploit these animals, and you’ll learn the difference as you work side by side with Following Giants to care
for the elephants.
Meals included: All

Pink Cohort: Mu Koh Lanta National Park
Spend the day exploring the scenic beauty of Mu Koh Lanta National Park, filled with lush rainforests, rugged cliffs, and pristine
beaches. Get ready to hit the waters as half of your day will be spent on a Mangrove Kayaking tour through the park!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 79: Thursday, November 27
Blue Cohort: Following Giants Continued
Enjoy a last and final day with Following Giants.
Meals included: All

Pink Cohort: Free Day
Rest, relax, and explore the island of Koh Lanta.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 80: Friday, November 28
Blue Cohort: Free Day
After two days of hard work, enjoy a free day to rest, relax, and explore the island of Koh Lanta.
Meals included: Breakfast

Pink Cohort: Service Learning Project with Following Giants
Time to dive into service with Following Giants [https://www.followinggiants.net/], an organization dedicated to improving the
habitat and welfare of elephants. Both EF and Following Giants are partnered with the World Animal Protection, ensuring that any
activity you are doing is safe and providing a healthy environment for animals. There are unfortunately many tourist organizations
that exploit these animals, and you’ll learn the difference as you work side by side with Following Giants to care for the
elephants.
Meals included: All

Day 81: Saturday, November 29
Blue Cohort: Mu Koh Lanta National Park
Spend the day exploring the scenic beauty of Mu Koh Lanta National Park, filled with lush rainforests, rugged cliffs, and pristine
beaches. Get ready to hit the waters as half of your day will be spent on a Mangrove Kayaking tour through the park!
Meals included: Breakfast

Pink Cohort: Following Giants Continued
Make the most of your final day with Following Giants!
Meals included: All

Day 82: Sunday, November 30
Fly to Bangkok
Both cohorts fly to Bangkok in preparation for your final days on program.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 83: Monday, December 1
Wrap-Up & Farewell Dinner
Before leaving Thailand, spend time with your group reflecting on all that you’ve experienced and accomplished together over the
past semester.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 84: Tuesday, December 2
Fly Home
Fly home from Thailand for Winter Break!
Meals included: Breakfast

WINTER BREAK

Winter Break

Wednesday, December 3, 2025 – Tuesday, February 10, 2026
You can use Winter Break in a lot of different ways. It could be a time for you to rest, to see friends & family, to work, and/or
to keep traveling on your own time! EF covers your flight to and from your home city to return home for the break. If you have
other plans, make sure to discuss these in advance with your Advisor so they can outline your options and flight policies.

An additional note for those spending their second semester in Europe: As a US passport holder, we recommend avoiding travel to
the Schengen Region during winter break. Your cumulative time in Europe will be within the visa-free limit but with little margin.
Please use the visa calculator here [https://www.visa-calculator.com/]to confirm.

IMMERSION SEMESTER

Option 1: Language Study

Days 85-89: Wednesday, February 11 – Sunday, February 15
Welcome to your new home!
Fly from your home to your selected EF Language Campus location. Arrive on Thursday, February 12 and enjoy a Welcome Dinner
alongside your cohort. Spend the weekend settling into your new home with guided exploration and orientation sessions designed to
get you acquainted with your peers and new home for the semester.

Days 90-157: Monday, February 16 – Friday, April 24
Immersion at the EF Language Campus
During this semester, you’ll be living more independently, immersing yourself in local culture, and learning the language. On your
first morning of class, you’ll make your way independently to the local EF language school. Depending on where you are, this could
mean taking a subway, a bus, walking, or likely a combination. Using local transportation on your own to commute is a big part of
building the independence you’ll get out of this experience.

When you arrive at the EF school, you’ll get a tour of the campus and take a language test to determine what section you’ll be in.
There will be other students from your cohort there, other EF Gap students from other programs, and EF students from around the
world who have come to this city to take language classes. As you go through 10 weeks of language, you’ll have the chance to make
new friends from all over the world!

The first week will usually be the most challenging – you are getting to learn a new city, traveling around independently, and
taking classes in a foreign language. And unlike what you may have done in high school, these classes will be fully in the local
language with no English spoken. This is because EF is an experiential learning company, and we believe in the power of learning
by immersion. Leaning in and doing your best this first week will set you up for success for the remainder of your time in this
semester, and will go a long way towards improving your language skills and confidence. You’ll have 3-4 hours of class per day,
and the rest of the day is up to you to decide how you want to experience living in this new city. Learn more about EF’s approach
to language learning through this video here [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aOqBIPAyvnc]. 

You will be supported by on-the-ground staff who will support your cohort of EF Gap students. They will arrange regular meetings
and check-ins with your group to keep you on track with your goals.

Your EF school will also have an activities calendar where you can see events that you can sign up for. Some will be free, some
will be fairly cheap like a local cooking class or sports game, and others will be more expensive as they can include full weekend
trips. Whatever you choose to do, it’s a great way to make friends and get to know the area.

During your last week of your time at the EF Language Campus, you will have a graduation ceremony and celebrate your success! Note
that you must attend at least 80% of your classes in order to successfully receive your graduation certificate.

Days 158-161: Saturday, April 25 – Tuesday, April 28
Wrap-Up
Spend your last few days with your fellow EF Gap students reflecting on all that you’ve achieved throughout your year. You will
have guided sessions and workshops focused on processing all that you’ve learned and how to take these learnings into your next
steps. Then, you'll close out the year with a Farwell Dinner alongside your cohort before you fly home on April 28.

Option 2: Internship

Days 85-89: Wednesday, February 11 – Sunday, February 15
Welcome to your new home!
Fly from your home to Stockholm, Sweden. Arrive on Thursday, February 12 and enjoy a Welcome Dinner alongside your cohort. Spend
the weekend settling into your new home with guided exploration and orientation sessions designed to get you acquainted with your
peers and new home for the semester.

Days 90-157: Monday, February 16 – Friday, April 24
Internship in Stockholm
For 10 weeks, you will be living in Stockholm and working at your internship. This is the most independent module of your program.
At this point, you are living in an apartment, cooking your own meals, and commuting to and from your internship on all weekdays.
You have been building the skills throughout your Gap experience to be able to successfully live and work in a new country!

You will typically be working approximately 9am to 5pm Monday through Friday at your internship in Stockholm. Each company will
have slightly different expectations around your timing, so make sure to understand their expectations and follow them throughout
your time in Stockholm.

You are expected to be at work every day. The weekends are your time to do any personal travel you may want to do in the region.
Your weeknights are time for you to rest, explore, or decompress with friends.

Throughout your time in Stockholm, you will have regular opportunities for professional development experiences.

Days 158-161: Saturday, April 25 – Tuesday, April 28
Wrap-Up
Spend your last few days with your fellow EF Gap students reflecting on all that you’ve achieved throughout your year. You will
have guided sessions and workshops focused on processing all that you’ve learned and how to take these learnings into your next
steps. Then, you'll close out the year with a Farwell Dinner alongside your cohort before you fly home on April 28.


PREPARING TO TRAVEL

Packing
We recommend bringing one checked bag and a personal item, like as a backpack. Packing two weeks’ worth of essentials is ideal, as
laundry services will be available either at the hotel for a fee or at a local laundromat. You will be expected to carry your
luggage throughout the program, and some accommodations may not have elevators, so pack light! With a variety of activities and
climates ahead, packing according to the itinerary is essential. Additionally, “athleisure” is not super common in Europe, so we
suggest assembling a capsule wardrobe. You may also visit sites like cathedrals that require modest clothing (knees and shoulders
covered). In Thailand, the weight limit for most airlines is 20 KGS / 44 LBS. Keep this in mind while packing, as this is notably
different than the typical 50 LB limit for the majority of other flights. 

Budgeting
Whatever your personal spending habits are, it’s important to anticipate your expenses and budget accordingly so that you can
travel care-free with more time to enjoy participating in your program. While many meals and activities are included during your
EF Gap program, we want to help you build a realistic budget for additional expenses so that you can fully enjoy trying the local
cuisine, participating in activities in your free time, and, of course, shopping for souvenirs to bring back home.

Pre-departure checklist
This checklist will help you keep track of all the different tasks you need to complete prior to departing on your EF Gap program.
In this section, you can also find relevant links to things like the Portal, your pre-departure webinars, and entry requirements
for the countries on your program. If you see anything on the checklist that you have questions about, check in with your advisor!

PACKING LIST

Clothing

 * Short and long-sleeve t-shirts

 * Athletic shorts or work pants (for service learning in Thailand; prepare for them to get worn or dirty!)

 * Jeans or other casual pants

 * Socks and underwear

 * Lightweight pajamas

 * Warmer layers in case of chilly nights

 * Raincoat and light jacket

 * Winter coat and gear (seasonal)

 * Nicer outfits (occasional use)

 * Comfortable walking shoes/sneakers

 * Sturdy shoes/hiking boots

 * Sandals/flip-flops

 * Bathing suits
   

Accessories

 * Reusable water bottle

 * Sunglasses

 * 2 hats: 1 for sun coverage and for warmth (like a beanie)

 * Packing cubes (optional)

 * Cross-body bag or travel/money belt

 * Travel umbrella

 * Laptop/tablet if enrolled in college credits

 * Headphones

 * Camera, memory card, charging cables

 * Universal plug adapter

 * Portable charger

 * Travel lock for luggage and belongings

 * Laundry bag

 * Work gloves

 * Head lamp or mini flashlight (optional)

 * Books or Kindle

 * Journal

Toiletries

 * Toothbrush and toothpaste

 * Deodorant

 * Body wash/soap

 * Shampoo and conditioner

 * Hairbrush

 * Sunscreen (reef-safe is encouraged!)

 * Bug spray and anti-itch cream

 * Stomach soothing medication

 * Motion sickness medication

 * Electrolytes/hydration packets

 * Wet wipes

 * Stain Remover stick and detergent packs

 * Contact lenses, solution, eyeglasses

 * Menstrual products (you may want to bring enough to last you for the duration of your program, as options may be different from
   what is available in the US)

 * Any prescribed medications in original packaging. Make sure you have enough supply for each semester.

Personal item

 * Passport
   Bring a photocopy as well.

 * Wallet
   Bring your debit or ATM card so you can withdraw cash, as well as your credit card, ID, and student ID if you have one
   (discounts!).

 * Medication
   For prescription medication, bring the original container, copy of the prescription, and enough supply to last your program
   (click here [https://jp.usembassy.gov/services/importing-medication/] to learn more about bringing medication into Japan). 

 * Change of clothing
   Spare change of clothing and essential toiletries in the event that your checked bag is delayed or lost.

 * Copy of your flight itinerary and accommodations
   Found in your EF Traveler Portal.

 * Reusable water bottle

 * Neck pillow / eye mask / ear plugs

 * Primary health insurance card from the U.S.

BUDGETING GUIDE

Money management

Overview 

We don’t recommend traveling with large sums of cash. You may want to convert a small amount of money to the currency of your
first destination. From there, you’ll be able to access local currency by using your debit card to withdraw cash from an ATM.  

Be sure to check with your bank ahead of time and, if necessary, provide a travel notice so they don’t block the card for
suspected fraud. Also ask them about any foreign transaction fees that might apply, as these can add up quickly. We recommend
bringing a back-up credit card in case your primary card is lost or stolen. 

Semester 1: Europe (various currencies) 

Plan to budget $200-300 per week while you are traveling through Europe. Since you are visiting some of Europe’s most popular
cities, the cost of living is high (especially in Zurich!). Be mindful of how much you are spending, since it’s the first part of
your program. Note that currencies vary across countries you will be visiting:  

 * England’s currency is the Great British pound 

 * France, Italy, and Germany's currency is the euro 

 * Switzerland’s currency is the Swiss franc 

 * The Czech Republic's currency is the koruna 

Semester 1: Australia (Australian dollar) 

Plan to budget around $70 per day for living expenses during your time in Australia. Australians are some the wealthiest people in
the world, so the cost of living can be quite high. In addition to meals, there are also optional activities you might choose to
do during your free time; depending on the activity, those can cost upwards of $100 in Australia. 

Semester 1: Thailand (Thai baht) 

Plan to budget around $20-$25 per day for living expenses during your time in Thailand. Compared to places like the US or
Australia, Thailand is an extremely affordable country. 

Semester 2: Language or Internship 

Plan to budget $200-$400 per week (11 weeks total). However, your budget will highly depend on the cost of living in your
particular city. During second semester, you will be responsible for your own meals. You may also want to set additional money
aside for personal travel; many students decide to travel in the region independently on holidays or weekends.  

Expenses

Meals 

First semester, all breakfasts and some lunches or dinners will be provided on program. Second semester, you are responsible for
all meals, aside from some meals at orientation, wrap-up, and group meals.  

Transportation 

Many of the cities you will be in are very walkable and/or accessible with low-cost public transport. If you opt for private
transportation like Ubers or taxis, this will add to your expenses. 

Extras 

We recommend budgeting up to $50 a week for extra costs. This could mean putting money aside for things like: 

– Additional checked bag airline fee 
– Additional items of clothing 
– Emergencies 
– Extra toiletries 
– Souvenirs 
– Laundry 
– Optional Excursions: Your Tour Director may find opportunities for additional excursions and activities; typically, these
experiences can cost anywhere from $20-$100+, and there may be one or two opportunities like this each week. 

NEXT STEPS

Pre-departure checklist

 * Confirm your Passport is valid 6 months after program end date

 * Log into Traveler Portal [https://efgapyear.my.site.com/myefgap/s/login/] and complete Profile Tab

 * Complete the EF health form [https://efgapyear.com/health-form/]

 * Enroll in the Global Travel Protection Plan [https://efgapyear.com/travel-protection/]

 * Enroll in EF’s T-Mobile Phone Plan (optional)

 * Review recommendations for traveling abroad with medicine on CDC website
   [https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-abroad-with-medicine] and consult your physician for personal recommendations

 * Review entry requirements using Sherpa [https://apply.joinsherpa.com/travel-restrictions?affiliateId=efgapyear&language=en-US]

 * Inform your advisor if you have any changes to flight gateways and travel plans to discuss policies and associated fees

 * Complete First Aid Virtual Training (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your affinity group (if applicable) (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your cohort’s WhatsApp group (~30 days before departure)

 * Complete Electronic Travel Authorizations (ETAs) for the following countries to meet entry requirements: UK, Thailand,
   Australia. More details to come from your advisor prior to departure.

Webinars

Engage with your Program Advisor, meet others from your cohort, and learn all you'll need to have an incredible Gap Year on our
upcoming pre-departure webinars. Dates and registration links are shared in advance via email.

 1. Welcome Webinar – Kickoff your EF Gap Year pre-departure process with helpful information and good vibes! This webinar is
    required for students and family members are invited to join. 
    

 2. Family Support Webinar – Calling all families! Gain a deeper understanding of EF's support structure and how you can best
    support your student while they're traveling. This webinar is for family members only. 
    

 3. Online Orientation – Dive into safety and wellness along with all the pre-departure logistics you'll need to ensure a smooth
    experience abroad! Students only. This webinar is for students only.

PACKING TIPS

BE PREPARED FOR BAGGAGE ACCOUNTABILITY

You will be on the move constantly, which means you will be responsible for carrying the weight of your luggage–and remember,
elevators are not common in many foreign countries. Make this easy on yourself and don’t pack more than you need.

PACKING TIPS

BE AWARE OF BAGGAGE ALLOWANCES

Bag allowances for checked bags, carry-on, and personal items vary by airline and route. Visit your airline's website to
understand their policy. It is important you stick to this limit, as your luggage will need to fit on the bus with the rest of
your cohort’s luggage. Airlines will directly charge you excess weight or additional luggage.

PACKING TIPS

CONSIDER COST OF OVERSIZED BAGS

Checked luggage sizes are generally no more than 29" in height and 45lb in weight; carry-on sizes vary by airline, so you will
want to check once you know your flight information. Please know that if your bag exceeds the weight limit, you will be
responsible for the extra cost per airline.

PACKING TIPS

REMEMBER TO RE-PACK

We suggest packing your bag once and then re-packing it, taking out a few things the second time; the pack and re-pack method will
let you do a trial run, so that you really, truly take only what you need. Trust us, there will be an opportunity to make
purchases while you travel!

PACKING TIPS

REMOVE ITEMS YOU DO NOT NEED

You do not need to bring sheets or bath towels for second semester; these will be provided. Additionally, you can buy an
inexpensive beach towel once you arrive in any beach destination.

PACKING TIPS

VERSATILITY IS KEY

Pack basics, neutral colors, and layers so you can easily mix and match. Pack items that can be dressed up or dressed down so you
can use them for multiple locations.

PACKING TIPS

SNACK LIGHT

Bring a few granola bars or snacks for your initial travels, but no need to pack more food. A large part of your experience while
abroad is immersing yourself in the culture—this includes the food you eat. Who knows, you may find a new favorite food!

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL LIGHT

We cannot stress enough the importance of packing light: it is vital that you bring no more than two bags–the standard is one
checked bag and one personal item. Leave some extra room in your suitcase for souvenirs.

PACKING TIPS

BRING A FIRST AID KIT

You don't need much, but it's really helpful to bring a few things like Band-Aids and antibiotic cream. Additionally, generic
over-the-counter medicines to address common ailments are very helpful (e.g. upset stomach, motion sickness, headaches, cough
drops, etc.).

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL TAGS ARE YOUR BAG’S BEST FRIEND

Don’t forget to put a luggage tag on your bags so you can easily identify them! We also advise taking a photo of your bags before
you depart in the event they get lost or delayed.




CULTURAL IMMERSION

This section is your go-to guide for insights and tips about the incredible destinations you'll explore during your program.
Gaining an understanding of each place—its culture, customs, and everyday life—will help you engage more meaningfully and navigate
new experiences with confidence. Embracing cultural norms and traditions fosters deeper connections with locals, enriches personal
growth, and makes your journey even more rewarding. Think of this as just the beginning—let your curiosity lead the way as you
dive into your own research and discoveries! 

LOCATIONS

England

The basics 

England is part of the United Kingdom along with Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. They are united under the same monarch and
government, though each has their own parliaments. The monarchy holds a deep cultural and historical significance in England,
symbolizing continuity and national identity, with many people expressing great respect for the institution, regardless of their
personal views on its role in modern society. Be mindful not to call the whole of the UK, “England,” especially not when meeting
Scots, Welsh, or Northern Irish, as they’ll likely be offended. Study up a bit on the geography before arriving! 

Formed by the union of small Celtic and Anglo-Saxon kingdoms during the medieval period, England is comprised of several distinct
regions. Many English people identify with the region where they’re from—for example, Yorkshire, the West Country, or the
Midlands. After World War II, England became highly urbanized. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

The English are known for being punctual so be mindful of being on time for scheduled activities, meals and meet-up times
communicated by your Tour Director. You won’t want to miss “afternoon tea” which is an essential part of English culture. It's
common to have afternoon tea around 3:00-4:00pm accompanied by light snacks like sandwiches, scones with jam, and cake. 
 
While waiting in line for different experiences or even the bathroom, mind the queue. It's considered rude to cut in front of
someone who is waiting in line. You never know who you’ll meet in line, especially in London which is a melting pot of people from
across the globe. You’ll hear lots of languages being spoken and be exposed to different cuisines.  

Learn a few common words and phrases. Even though they speak English, you’ll notice new vocabulary, such as: 

 * Quid: a one-pound coin 

 * Knackered: exhausted 

 * Cheers: thanks! 

 * It’s proper good!: something is really great  

 * The loo: the bathroom  

If you fancy a pint, England has a rich pub culture, with many socializing regularly in local pubs. It's common to drink beer,
cider, or spirits. In restaurants, a service charge (usually 10-15%) may already be included in the bill, but if it's not, tipping
around 10% is customary. While out and about be mindful that cars drive on the other side of the road (compared to how we drive in
the US). Always look both ways before crossing the street! 
 
While you’ll see a lot of the city, don’t expect to see the Royal Family at Buckingham Palace! Don’t be caught as a tourist mixing
up Tower Bridge and London Bridge: London Bridge refers to several bridges built over the Thames, while Tower Bridge is the
current bridge between the City of London and Southwark in Central London. 

France

The basics 

Paris, France’s capital, is a major metropolitan area and a bustling center of fashion, cuisine, art, and architecture. Between
the busy cafes, countless art museums, and quaint streets, Paris offers an experience of French culture like no other. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

While in Paris, you will rely heavily on public transit so learn the metro or local transit system. It can be complicated at
first, but once you get the hang of it, you’ll have access to the whole city. Note that it’s not uncommon for strikes to impact
your commute. Due to the size and large population of the city, anticipate longer than average commutes from your accommodation to
the city center. As you navigate, don’t dawdle or walk slowly. If you’re lost, pop into a shop or a nearby café and reorient
yourself. In Europe, try to always walk with a purpose to avoid unwanted attention or pickpockets. 

No matter the commute, it’s always worth it as the food and wine, pivotal to the French people, will make this city a favorite on
your foodie list. Some classic dishes include boeuf bourguignon and coq au vin. Breakfasts are often small and sweet–for example,
something like bread and jam. It is uncommon to have eggs, sausages, bacon, and other typical American breakfasts in Paris. 

When entering a shop or browsing at an outdoor market, it is customary to greet the shopkeeper or business owner; A simple
“Bonjour/Hello” during the day or “Bonsoir/Good evening” at night will go a long way! Parisians value those who try to speak
French, so brush up on some common words and phrases:  

 * Bonjour: Hello, Good morning 

 * Au revoir: Goodbye 

 * Oui: Yes 

 * Merci beaucoup: Thank you very much 

 * Je m’appelle: My name is… 

 * Comment allez-vous?: How are you doing? 

 * Combien ça coûte?: How much is this? 

French people, particularly Parisians, may have a different communication style than Americans. They communicate clearly and
directly, without much cushioning or sugar-coating, which can be shocking – don't take it personally!  

Anticipate less emphasis on personal space. French people often greet one another with a kiss on the cheek and a hug (even
strangers!). Similarly, they have a much smaller expectation of (or regard for) personal space. Plus, French people love to
observe. Don’t be surprised if you catch people lounging at cafés (or in other locations) staring at you every now and then; this
is common and isn’t considered to be rude in French culture. 

Unfortunately, anti-immigrant and anti-Black racism in France is not uncommon. Students of color, particularly Black students, may
encounter verbal harassment or more attention from police. 

Overall, enjoy this romantic city and all the croissants and history it boasts!  

Switzerland

The basics   

Switzerland, a landlocked country in Central Europe, is renowned for its stunning alpine landscapes, political neutrality, and
high quality of life. It is home to breathtaking mountains, picturesque lakes, and charming cities like Zurich, Geneva, and Bern.
Switzerland is famous for its precision engineering, luxury watches, and world-class banking system. The country has four official
languages—German, French, Italian, and Romansh—reflecting its diverse cultural heritage. Since 1815, following the Napoleonic
Wars, Switzerland has been granted neutrality, meaning they avoid participation in wars between other states Known for its
commitment to diplomacy, it hosts numerous international organizations, including the United Nations and the Red Cross. Swiss
traditions such as cheese fondue, chocolate-making, and yodeling contribute to its unique cultural identity, making it a
fascinating blend of tradition and modernity. 

Cultural norms and what to expect  

Due to its centralized location, Swiss culture is largely an accumulation of many European cultures. Approximately 65% of Swiss
people consider themselves Swiss German, while 18% consider themselves of French ethnic descent and another 10% as Italian
descent.   

The public transportation and train system in Switzerland is fantastic (albeit, pricey). If you find yourself with a free day or
two in the city, head over to the Zurich HB for a scenic train ride to nearby hotspots, like Lucerne or Engelberg. Switzerland
makes travel easy through the Swiss Rail Pass.   

As you explore different regions, you'll notice how specific characteristics sharply define the country. For example, in the east,
you’ll find many tight-knit, German-speaking, mountain communities. In the west, you may find more French speakers. As a rule of
thumb, greet everyone you meet. This includes shop keepers, hotel staff, and even the hikers you may pass by. This is customary
and polite etiquette in Switzerland.   

As you may suspect, Swiss food is influenced by German, French, and Italian cuisine. A few favorite dishes include Rösti (a hot
cake made of potatoes and fried in butter), cheese fondue, and, of course, Swiss chocolate! 

The Swiss franc is used as currency and 1 Swiss Franc is equivalent to a little over 1 USD. Switzerland is notoriously known for
being expensive in comparison to the US. For example, at a fast-food restaurant like McDonalds, expect to pay anywhere from 12-20
CHF.  

Tipping in Switzerland is generally not mandatory but appreciated. A tip of 5-10% is common in restaurants if service is good.
However, service charges are often included in the bill, so tipping is discretionary. In cafes and bars, rounding up the bill or
leaving small change is sufficient.  

Lastly, get ready to rock your wardrobe! Swiss people value appearance and style. You will rarely see them wearing ripped jeans or
shabby clothing!  

Italy

The basics 

Italy, a peninsula in the Mediterranean Sea, is home to the epicenter of the of the Roman Empire, a major hub of Catholicism, and
the birthplace of the Renaissance. The country is known for its incredible food and history around every corner.   

The Catholic Church’s statistics suggest that 96% of Italians were baptized as Catholic, so that alone speaks to the dominance of
Catholic traditions. Whether or not you’re Catholic, you will be welcomed into the country with open arms, but it’s important to
respect the traditions, particularly when visiting religious site, such as the many towering cathedrals or Vatican City.   

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Learn common words and phrases:   

 * Ciao, ragazzi = Hey guys!   

 * Buongiorno = Good morning  

 * Buonasera = Good evening  

 * Lei parla inglese = Do you speak English?  

 * Come va = How are you?  

 * Bene, grazie = Good, thank you  

Be prepared for hugs and kisses when greeting others. It’s common to give air kisses on both cheeks when greeting others; this is
called il bacetto.  

Don’t spend too much time in touristy areas! Visit once, then explore the less traveled areas.   

In big cities like Rome, popular areas can be very touristy. It’s not uncommon for Americans to get pick-pocketed, so be sure to
keep your important documents or electronics close (we suggest a cross body or a fanny pack!). Make sure to keep your phone zipped
away, not in the pocket of pants or jacket. 

The Czech Republic

The basics  

The Czech Republic, located in the heart of Central Europe, is a country known for its rich history, charming architecture, and
vibrant culture. Bordered by Germany, Austria, Slovakia, and Poland, it serves as a crossroads between Eastern and Western Europe.
Its capital, Prague, is often called the "City of a Hundred Spires" and is renowned for its stunning medieval buildings and lively
atmosphere. The Czech Republic boasts a well-preserved heritage, from Gothic castles and Baroque towns to its famous tradition of
brewing some of the world's finest beers. Today, it is a modern and dynamic country, blending its deep historical roots with a
strong economy and a thriving arts and cultural scene. 

Cultural norms and what to expect  

Czechs are generally reserved and value privacy. When meeting someone for the first time, it is best to avoid overly personal
questions. Exhibiting modesty and politeness will help foster positive interactions.  

Learn a few common words and phrases: 

 * Dobrý den = Good day 

 * Děkuji = Thank you 

 * Mluvíte anglicky? = Do you speak English? 

Czechs place great importance on proper greetings, typically involving a firm handshake, direct eye contact, and greeting everyone
upon entering a room. Punctuality is highly valued, both in social and professional settings. Arriving late without notice is
viewed as disrespectful.  

To arrive on time, be aware of decorum on public transport as it’s a common and reliable means of getting around. It is expected
that passengers give up their seats to the elderly or those with disabilities.  

When dining, wait for the host to say “Dobrou chuť” (enjoy your meal) before beginning to eat. It is customary to say “Na zdraví”
(cheers) when toasting during meals. While tipping is not obligatory, rounding up the bill or leaving a 10% tip for good service
is appreciated in restaurants. 

Lastly, respect for tradition is deeply ingrained in Czech society, with significant attention paid to holidays such as Easter and
Christmas. 

Australia

The basics 

Australia is a land like no other – full of breathtaking natural wonders, vibrant cities, and rich cultural heritage. Home to
approximately 26 million people, it has deep Indigenous roots, with Aboriginal communities thriving for over 50,000 years before
British colonization in 1788. 

Today, Australia is a diverse, democratic nation known for its stunning landscapes, from the Great Barrier Reef to the red sands
of Uluru. Sydney, its largest city, boasts the iconic Opera House, Harbor Bridge, and lively neighborhoods like Potts Point and
Newtown. With a relaxed and welcoming atmosphere, Australia offers an unforgettable experience for travelers. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Australians are friendly and laid-back but value directness and humility. Conversations often include sarcasm, so don’t be
surprised by casual teasing—it’s usually a sign of friendliness.  

Australia is known to be an expensive destination, especially in cities like Sydney and Melbourne. Tipping isn’t expected, as
wages are higher than in the U.S., though rounding up the bill or leaving 10% for great service is appreciated. When dining out
with friends, it’s common to split the bill rather than one person paying for all. Australians also take beach safety
seriously—always swim between the red and yellow flags, as currents can be strong. 

Respect for Indigenous culture is important, so be mindful when discussing Aboriginal history or visiting sacred sites like Uluru.
Australians also have a more relaxed attitude toward swearing, which is common even in casual workplaces. Public transport is
efficient in major cities, but you’ll need a contactless card like Opal or Myki to use trains, buses, and ferries. If you're
polite and open-minded, you'll feel right at home in Australia! 

Thailand

The basics  

Known as the “Land of a Thousand Smiles,” Thailand is a truly special place to visit. Thailand lies between Cambodia, Myanmar, and
Laos, with the Gulf of Thailand to its south. Its varied landscapes are extremely diverse; you’ll find everything from forested
mountains and dry plateaus in the north to river plains, sandy beaches, and dozens of tropical islands in the south.   

Thailand is a constitutional monarchy with a rich political history. The current king Maha Vajiralongkorn is the son of the third
longest reigning monarch in history and many Thai people hold significant reverence for the royal family and its symbols. Thailand
is home to thousands of stunning temples (wats) that showcase the nation’s rich spiritual traditions, so prepare for many temple
visits along your travels.  

The rainy, or “monsoon,” season roughly runs from May until November, with the heaviest rains coming in October and November. The
temperatures across the country hit their highs between March and April, with an average range of 85-95 degrees Fahrenheit in
those months, so we recommend bringing quick-dry and light clothing for comfort.  

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Thailand is a welcoming country with deep cultural traditions that visitors should respect. The royal family is highly revered,
and any criticism is both offensive and illegal. Instead of handshakes, Thais often greet with a wai (palms pressed together with
a slight bow), though tourists aren’t expected to initiate it.  

Modesty is important, especially when visiting temples—shoulders and knees should be covered. While casual wear is fine at
beaches, it’s best to dress more conservatively in cities. Always remove your shoes before entering temples or homes. Showing
respect and adapting to local customs will ensure a positive experience in Thailand. 

Street food is a huge part of Thai cuisine, offering delicious and affordable options like pad thai, mango sticky rice, and
grilled satay. Tipping is not customary in Thailand, but small gratuities for great service can be very much appreciated.   

Spain

The basics 

Spain’s history is a mix of ancient Roman, Moorish, and global influences, shaping its vibrant culture today. In 1492, Spain’s
Catholic Monarchs finished the Reconquista, and Columbus set sail to the Americas, marking the start of Spain’s global empire.
This rich past is still alive in the country’s art, architecture, and traditions like flamenco and bullfighting. Today, Spain is a
modern democracy, with Madrid as its bustling capital and around 47 million people. 

Known for its warm Mediterranean climate, Spain offers a variety of landscapes, from the beaches of Costa Brava to the mountainous
regions of the Pyrenees. The country is made up of 17 autonomous communities, each with its own regional identity and sometimes
its own language, such as Catalan in Barcelona or Basque in Bilbao. Spain is a popular destination for travelers, known for its
cuisine (like tapas and paella), art (the works of Picasso and Gaudí), and lively festivals, such as La Tomatina and Running of
the Bulls. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Spaniards are generally warm and friendly, but interactions tend to be more formal at first, especially in professional or
unfamiliar settings. A handshake is the typical greeting, though close friends or family may exchange two cheek kisses—one on each
cheek.  

Spain’s mealtimes also differ from American norms, with lunch, the main meal of the day, typically starting around 2 p.m., and
dinner happening later, around 9 or 10 p.m. Socializing over tapas (small dishes) is common before the main meal. Tipping is not
obligatory but rounding up the bill or leaving small change is appreciated, as service charges are usually included in restaurant
bills. Excessive tipping is unnecessary. When in public, Spaniards value discretion and calm; speaking loudly or interrupting
conversations may be seen as rude.   

Religion, particularly Catholicism, plays a significant role in Spain’s cultural and historical traditions. Many Spaniards
identify as Roman Catholic, and this influence is evident in celebrations like Semana Santa (Easter) and Christmas, marked by
elaborate processions and ceremonies. While Spain is a secular state, with religious freedom guaranteed by the constitution, it’s
still important to show respect when visiting religious sites. Modest dress (covering shoulders and knees) is expected when
entering churches, cathedrals, or monasteries, and visitors should be mindful of quiet and respectful behavior, especially during
services or prayer times. 

Finally, be aware of pickpockets in high traffic tourist spots and big cities, like Barcelona or Madrid. Always keep your
belongings on your person and tucked away safely in a secure bag, especially when it’s nighttime.  

South Korea

The basics 

South Korea is a land of stark contrasts, a place where tradition and technology are equally embraced, and the quick pace of life
is offset by the serenity of nature.   

Korea has a rich and complicated cultural and political history, but since 1948, the country has utilized a presidential system of
government like that of the United States.   

Korea uses the Won as its currency. Its economy is highly developed, and the main industries include textile, car, and electronic
manufacturing. However, although Korea is a manufacturing and technological powerhouse, the most valuable Korean export is
arguably its cultural exports of K-pop and teledramas. Bands like BTS and BLACKPINK have a global following and their success,
along with dozens of other K-pop stars, have turned Korea into one of the world’s most popular tourist destinations for young
people today.   

Seoul is a beautiful, clean, and fun city with an endless number of things to do. Check out the bustling attractions of Myeongdong
and Hongdae, do some shopping in Gangnam, and visit the Gyeongbokgung Palace, one of Korea’s national treasures.  

Cultural norms and what to expect 

While the language is very different than English, it is a sign of respect to learn some common phrases: 

 * An-nyeong ha-se-yo (안녕하세요): Hello 

 * An-nyeong-hi ga-se-yo (안녕히 가세요): Goodbye. [This is the goodbye to use if someone else is leaving.] 

 * An-nyeong-hi gye-se-yo (안녕히 계세요): Goodbye. [This is the goodbye to use when YOU are leaving.  

 * Ne (네): Yes  

 * A-ni-yo (아니요): No  

 * Mi-an-hab-ni-da (미안합니다): Sorry.  

 * Gam-sa-hab-ni-da(감사합니다): Thank you.  

The country’s unique customs and etiquette can seem difficult to navigate but arrive with a respectful attitude and you will be
welcomed by some of the friendliest people in the world. It is important to note many people, especially older people, tend to
keep to themselves. Be sure to read social cues to help determine when to approach someone and when you might not want to.  

 * Don’t tip! Gratuity is included in the bill, and it can feel offensive or confusing if you try to tip on top of that.   

 * Be respectful of all statues, religious monuments, and temples.  

The transit system in Seoul is efficient but can be confusing to navigate. Be sure to download KakaoMap, Naver maps or Subway
Korea before you arrive.   

Korean beauty standards have become a well-known aspect of Korean culture and prioritize a slim figure, v-shaped jaw, pale skin,
straight eyebrows, and large eyes. It is common to see ads featuring fair-skinned models marketing plastic surgery procedures and
products that include whitening agents.  

Similar to other parts of Asia, foreigners traveling around Korea may be stared at, pointed to, or called a “wayguk,” which means
“foreigner.” Many black and brown travelers experience a version of this ostracization that is influenced by prejudiced notions
about them popularized by western media. However, these travelers often recall these moments as opportunities for cultural
exchange where all parties learn about others’ perspectives and experiences.   

Japan

The basics 

Japan is an archipelago with four main islands and nearly 4,000 smaller ones, known for its blend of modernity and rich cultural
traditions. Famous worldwide for anime, Japan has also fostered the otaku subculture, including gaming, roleplaying, and
cosplaying. 

Public transportation is highly efficient, with metro trains, buses, and taxis serving urban areas, while the bullet train
(shinkansen) is ideal for long-distance travel. Tokyo, Japan's vibrant capital, is the world's most populous city, offering a mix
of traditional and modern cultures. Major districts like Shinjuku, Shibuya, Akihabara, and Harajuku offer unique experiences for
travelers. The climate ranges from snowy winters to hot, humid summers, with Tokyo enjoying a temperate climate similar to
Washington D.C. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

In Japan, respect and politeness are central to daily life. Bowing is a traditional greeting, and while tourists aren't expected
to initiate it, returning a bow shows respect. Speaking softly in public spaces is appreciated, as loud or disruptive behavior is
considered rude. Public transportation, especially trains, is highly efficient, but it's important to maintain quiet, which may be
a learning curve for American tourists who are often more outspoken. 

Public trash cans are rare, so it’s common for locals to carry a small plastic bag to hold trash until they can dispose of it. 

When visiting temples, shrines, or someone’s home, remember to remove your shoes. If you're invited into someone's home, it’s
customary to bring a small gift as a token of appreciation. Tipping is not practiced in Japan and may even be considered rude, as
service is seen as an integral part of the job. Additionally, it's polite to wait for the eldest or host to begin eating before
you start. 

Finally, although the language can be challenging for native English speakers, learning a few basic phrases is appreciated. Here
are some useful ones: 

 * Hello: Kon’nichiwa 

 * Excuse me: Sumimasen 

 * Thank you: Arigato 

Sweden

The basics 

Sweden, the largest country in Scandinavia, is known for its breathtaking natural landscapes, progressive society, and high
quality of life. Stretching from the Arctic Circle in the north to coastal cities in the south, Sweden offers a mix of serene
forests, thousands of lakes, and a long, rugged coastline. Its capital, Stockholm, is built on 14 islands and is famous for its
blend of modern innovation and historic charm. As a leader in sustainability, technology, and social welfare, Sweden is often seen
as a model for balanced development. The country also has a rich cultural heritage, from Viking history to contemporary design and
music. 

Cultural norms and what to expect  

Swedish culture values punctuality. Whether you're meeting someone for business or social reasons, it is considered rude to be
late. Be mindful of being on time for scheduled activities, meals and meet-up times. Remember that Stockholm is a cash-free city,
and many cafes, restaurants and hotels actually enforce a no-cash policy. Make sure you’re prepared with credit cards or digital
pay. Tipping is not as common or obligatory in Sweden as in some other countries, but it is appreciated for good service. In
restaurants, rounding up the bill or leaving a 5-10% tip is common practice. Tipping in cafes or bars is not expected, but leaving
small change is a nice gesture.   

When interacting with locals, know that Swedes have a direct communication style (handshake and eye contact when greeting
someone), which is often seen as refreshing but may seem blunt to those from more indirect cultures. That said, Swedes love to
socialize and engage with each other. For example, Fika is the Swedish coffee and cake ritual that means that the best cafes in
the city will be full to the brim in the afternoons, especially on weekends. The traditional fika is with a cinnamon bun, but some
cafes do their own variations. When interacting, pay attention to personal space. Maintain a little over an arm’s length of
distance and limit the amount of touching in a conversation.  

Sweden is one of the most LGBTQ+ friendly countries in Europe. They have a long history of being on the forefront of legal rights
for the LGBTQ+ community. That said, there are still undercurrents of racism and xenophobia, particularly anti-Black and
Islamophobic racism in Sweden. The far-right Sweden Democrats party, which has roots in WWII-era Nazism, received over 20% of the
votes in an election in October 2022. This wave has challenged conceptions of Sweden as a modern, “post-racial” society. While
still in the minority, it’s important to be aware of these biases as they can still be felt in society.  

Here are some helpful key words and common phrases:  

 * God morgon = Good morning 

 * God kväll! = Good evening 

 * Vad heter du? = What is your name? 

 * Mitt namn ä r = My name is 

 * Hur mår du? = How are you? 

 * Pratar du engelska? = Do you speak English?  

SOCIAL IDENTITY RESOURCE

Social Identity Resource Guide

Travel provides incredible opportunities to learn about yourself, the world, and yourself in the world. But travel is also a
deeply emotional experience that can bring different challenges to every individual based on the identities they hold and
experiences they’ve had.

The following resource is intended to help you think about how your intersecting identities can, and will, shape your experience
as an EF student. Take some time to review our Social Identity Resources
[https://a.storyblok.com/f/234741/x/46a3c53899/socialidentityresourcesfortravelers_2-14-23.pdf] to hear different perspectives,
learn about identity-specific resources, and prepare with helpful tips before you go abroad.




SAFETY & SUPPORT

EF Gap Year is a key part of EF’s expansive global network. With a presence in over 120 countries, 52,000 staff, 600 schools and
offices, and over 400 community partners our team has your back and is always available to help you succeed on your journey.

YOUR GLOBAL SUPPORT NETWORK

Advisor

Advisors are available for you and your family. Their role is to support you from a distance, check-in with you throughout the
program, and encourage you to achieve your goals. They are also here for parents and guardians as well. Advisors liaise with your
Tour Directors, Site Directors, Student Life Coordinators, and local EF staff, collectively working to ensure the success of your
experience. Advisors work from 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM EST Monday through Friday.

Tour Director

Your Tour Director is the logistical and safety coordinator of the group. They are a local guide who will serve as your best
resource for logistical support, like ensuring you arrive on time for flights or helping you find the nearest ATM. They are also
there for safety purposes and can help with medical concerns or emergencies as well.

You will have 3 Tour Directors during your first semester:
– One Tour Director for your European travels (Weeks 1-6)
– One Tour Director for your Australian travels (Weeks 7-9)
– One Tour Director for your Thailand travels (Weeks 10-12)

Student Life Coordinator

Your Student Life Coordinator supports the group dynamic as well as provides individual socio-emotional support on the ground.
They are available to encourage you to develop new relationships and support you in overcoming challenges, like homesickness.

You will have one Student Life Coordinator with your cohort for the duration of your first semester.

Site Director

Site Directors are responsible for all EF Study Abroad and Gap Year programs in their respective city. They may not participate in
every activity, but they are there to ensure a safe, meaningful, and transformative experience for all. 

International Language Campus Staff

The staff at your International Language Campus during the second semester are your teachers, activity providers, and housing
coordinators. They will help you acclimate to your new campus, its city, and your residence or homestay with their own
orientation. Your campus will offer a variety of opportunities outside of class, which is a great way to befriend the team that
will support you. While English is not used during class, they do speak English and are your first point of contact should an
issue arise during the language portion of your program.

Internship Coordinator

Your Internship Manager during the second semester will support you in having a positive and productive internship. At the
beginning of program, they will help you orientate to your new routine and at the end of program, they will help you process your
experience. In addition, your Internship Manager will liaise between you and your assigned company, checking in with you regularly
throughout your placement. They are your first point of contact should an issue arise during the Stockholm-based portion of your
program.

Safety & Incident Response Team

The Safety & Incident Response Team is available to all of our students 24/7 and is trained to support students in times of
crisis.

The EF Emergency Line is: 617-619-2520  

You can count on these experts, who work with a network of healthcare professionals and government personnel, to oversee proactive
operational welfare measures and provide aid to our students on program all over the world—so regardless of the time zone or
program, whatever the circumstance, whatever the hour, EF will be there to answer your call.

QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR UPCOMING PROGRAM?

Your dedicated Gap Year Advisor is here to help every step of the way.

/

https://www.facebook.com/efgapyear

https://www.instagram.com/efgapyear

https://www.tiktok.com/@efgapyear

https://www.youtube.com/c/EFGapYear

EF GAP YEAR OFFICE IN US

 * 2 Education Circle [/]
 * Cambridge, MA 02141 [/]
 * 1-800-726-9746 [tel:1-800-726-9746]
 * Directions / Opening hours [https://goo.gl/maps/bzbUyNEgfDaDAtBt7]

GAP YEAR PROGRAM

 * What is a Gap Year? [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
 * Our Programs [/programs/]
 * Our Destinations [/programs/destinations/]
 * EF Gap Year Itinerary [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
 * EF Gap Semester Programs [/programs/semester/]

ADMISSIONS & ABOUT EF

 * Admissions Process [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
 * Program Fees [/program-fees/]
 * Why Choose EF [/why-ef/]
 * Our Mission & Philosophy [/who-we-are/]
 * Reviews & Testimonials [/reviews-testimonials/]

HELP CENTER

 * Gap Year Webinars [/gap-year-webinars/]
 * Frequently Asked Questions [/faq/]
 * Pre-Departure Resources [/documents-and-forms/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * Get a Free Brochure [/brochure-request/]

 * Privacy Policy & Legal Notices [/privacy-policy/]
 * Booking Conditions [/booking-conditions/]
 * Travel Protection [/travel-protection/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]
 * Careers [/careers/]

 * © 2025 Signum International AG. All rights reserved.