 * Request a Brochure [/brochure-request/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]

Skip to main content
/
Back
 * Our Programs
    * The EF Gap Year
      [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
    * Semester Programs
      [/programs/semester/]
   
   
 * Admissions
    * Gap Planning Roadmap
      [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
    * Program Fees
      [/program-fees/]
    * Scholarships & Fundraising
      [/scholarships-fundraising/]
   
   
 * Resources
    * FAQs
      [/faq/]
    * For Parents
      [/gap-year-info-for-parents/]
    * For Educators & Counselors
      [/for-educators-counselors/]
    * College Deferral Guide
      [/college-deferral-guide/]
    * Earn College Credit
      [/earn-college-credit/]
    * Alumni Community
      [/alumni/]
    * Attend a Webinar
      [/gap-year-webinars/]
    * Gap Year Blog
      [/blog/]
   
   
 * About Us
    * Why Choose EF
      [/why-ef/]
    * Our Mission & Philosophy
      [/who-we-are/]
    * What is a Gap Year?
      [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
    * Safety & Support
      [/safety-and-support/]
    * Responsible Travel
      [/responsible-travel/]
    * Meet The Team
      [/meet-the-team/]
   
   

Get started [/next-steps/]
Menu

PROGRAM GUIDE:


THE CHANGEMAKER

SESSION 2: SEPTEMBER 15 - NOVEMBER 24, 2025


ITINERARY OVERVIEW

This itinerary is subject to change due to availability and local conditions at the time of departure.

Days 1–14: Costa Rica

Day 1: Monday, September 15
Arrive in San Jose, Costa Rica
Depart the U.S. and arrive in San Jose, Costa Rica’s capital city. Your EF Tour Director will be waiting for you at the airport
with a friendly face and a “pura vida”! Meet the rest of your group and enjoy a welcome dinner all together.
Meals included: Dinner

Day 2: Tuesday, September 16
EF Gap Year Orientation
Spend the morning getting to know your fellow travelers with icebreakers and activities centered around goal setting, group norms,
and learning about your staff.

In the afternoon, visit a coffee plantation to gain a first-hand understanding of how your morning cup of caffeine comes to be!
Meals included: All

Day 3: Wednesday, September 17
University for Peace Orientation
The University for Peace (or UPeace) is a UN-founded university that is focused on training leaders to solve global problems
related to global peace and wellbeing. While at UPeace, you will be doing workshops with a facilitator focused on preparing you
for your experience on-program, understanding your goals, and building teamwork. Plus, you’ll be on UPeace’s absolutely stunning
campus atop a mountain overlooking the city of San Jose!
Meals included: All

Day 4: Thursday, September 18
Head to Central Pacific Coast
Journey by private bus from San Jose to Costa Rica’s Central Pacific Coast.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 5: Friday, September 19
Manuel Antonio National Park
Manuel Antonio National Park is one of Costa Rica’s natural gems. From trekking through the rainforest and seeing sloths and
monkeys to strolling on the pristine white beaches, you’ll enjoy taking time to appreciate nature and relax!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 6: Saturday, September 20
Head to the Osa Peninsula
The Osa Peninsula is one of the most remote and beautiful parts of Costa Rica. You’ll travel by private bus from Manuel Antonio
down to the headquarters of the NGO Osa Conservation.

Note: Because this NGO is the most remote that you will visit in Costa Rica, make sure you get everything you need (e.g. snacks,
medications, insect repellant, etc.) before you get to the Osa Peninsula. The roads to get to there can be bumpy and conditions
can vary based on the weather. Make sure to listen to your Tour Director’s instructions.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 7-8: Sunday, September 21 – Monday, September 22
Service Learning Project with Osa Conservation
It's time to dive into your first service project at Osa Conservation [https://osaconservation.org/]! Osa Conservation is a
nonprofit dedicated to preserving the biodiversity of Costa Rica. While there, you will learn about and work with their sea turtle
conservation project — exact projects will vary based on the cycle of the turtles when you are there! You’ll also learn about and
work on Osa’s network of trails and sustainable agriculture projects. You will be staying at their Bio-Station, which backs up to
an old-growth rainforest, so you may see scarlet macaws, spider monkeys, and peccaries just outside your cabin!
Meals included: All

Days 9-10: Tuesday, September 23 – Wednesday, September 24
Service Learning Project: Mangrove Reforestation
Travel from the Osa Peninsula to the Central Pacific Coast. You’ll spend half a day working on a mangrove reforestation project
and learning about the importance of mangroves in coastal ecosystems. Take the rest of your time at La Isla to relax and enjoy the
surroundings.
Meals included: All except dinner on 9/15

Days 11-13: Thursday, September 25 – Saturday, September 27
Sustainable Agriculture & Eco-Living at Rancho Margot
Rancho Margot [https://www.ranchomargot.com/] is an off-the-grid, sustainable ranch surrounded by the rainforest. They are focused
on sharing their sustainable skills and perspective with visitors. While you’re there, you’ll take different workshops that focus
on learning how the sustainable farm works and doing things like making soap and making cheese. Your meals there will be made from
the food grown on-site! During your free time, you’ll be able to relax and enjoy this special environment — taking yoga classes,
enjoying the natural pools, and recharging in nature. You’ll also spend an afternoon to visit nearby La Fortuna Waterfall.
Meals included: All

Day 14: Sunday, September 28
Return to San Jose
Spend a final night in San Jose, where you’ll have a farewell dinner with your group.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 15-29: The Dominican Republic

Day 15: Monday, September 29
Fly to Santo Domingo
Take a flight from San Jose, Costa Rica to Santo Domingo, DR. Note that you will likely have a transfer during your transit, so it
will be a full day of travel. When you arrive at the Santo Domingo airport, you’ll be greeted by your Dominican Tour Director and
settle into your hotel.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 16: Tuesday, September 30
Intro to Santo Domingo
Explore Santo Domingo, including the Columbus House and Tres Ojos Caves. Enjoy a welcome dinner with your group!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 17-19: Wednesday, October 1 – Friday, October 3
Marine Conservation Project in Boca Chica
Drive to Boca Chica, a beautiful seaside Caribbean town. Work with the organization Verde Profundo
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UOupfg7xs70] on their coral reef and mangrove reforestation projects!
Meals included: All

Day 20: Saturday, October 4
Rest Day
Enjoy a rest day in beautiful Boca Chica. Enjoy the white sandy beaches, and get tips from your Tour Director on the best places
to explore in the town.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 21: Sunday, October 5
Excursion to Catalina Island
Enjoy an excursion to Catalina Island, a stunning tropical island with white beaches and crystal-clear waters. Spend the day
relaxing and enjoying this tropical paradise.
Meals included: All

Day 22: Monday, October 6
Drive to Cabarete
Drive from Jarabacoa to Cabarete, a beautiful surf town on the Northern coast of the Dominican Republic. Enjoy a free afternoon to
explore the town and the beach.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 23: Tuesday, October 7
Youth Education with Inspire DR
Spend your first of two days working with Inspire DR [https://inspiredr.org/], an educational non-profit focused on helping young
men and boys gain life skills.
Meals included: All

Day 24: Wednesday, October 8
Hit the Waves with a Surf Lesson
Cabarete is one of the Caribbean’s best places to surf! Take a surf lesson and learn how to ride the waves.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 25: Thursday, October 9
Youth Education with Inspire DR
Spend your second of two days working with Inspire DR [https://inspiredr.org/], an educational non-profit focused on helping young
men and boys gain life skills.
Meals included: All

Day 26: Friday, October 10
Explore Laguna Gri Gri
Laguna Gri Gri is a picturesque lagoon located on the northern coast. Surrounded by lush mangrove forests, the lagoon is renowned
for its clear blue waters, diverse birdlife, and tranquil atmosphere. Explore the lagoon by boat and leave time for some relaxing
on the beach.
Meals included: All

Day 27: Saturday, October 11
Rest Day
Enjoy a well-deserved rest day to take in the sun, sand, and water!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 28: Sunday, October 12
Transfer to Santo Domingo
Head back to Santo Domingo with your group. Have a farewell dinner to prepare for your trip to Quito the next morning.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 29: Monday, October 13
Free Day
Enjoy one last day in the Dominican Republic to check off any last-minute bucket list activities. In the evening enjoy a farewell
dinner with your group and your Dominican Tour Director.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 30-49: Peru

Day 30: Tuesday, October 14
Fly to Lima
Take a flight from Santo Domingo to Lima. Note that you will likely need to transfer flights, so expect a long day of travel.
You’ll be greeted by your Peruvian Tour Director! Your group will have a welcome dinner together in Lima.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 31: Wednesday, October 15
Guided tour of Lima
Explore Lima with a guide and visit the San Francisco Monastery.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 32: Thursday, October 16
Free day in Lima
Enjoy a free day to explore Lima on your own.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 33: Friday, October 17
Fly to Cusco
Fly from Lima to Cusco in the mountain city of Cusco. Be prepared for the high altitude by taking it easy and drinking lots of
water! Take a walking tour of Cusco and have a group dinner.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 34: Saturday, October 18
Sacsayhuaman
Visit the ruins of the ancient Inca temple of Sacsayhuaman.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 35: Sunday, October 19
Free day in Cusco
Enjoy a free day in Cusco to explore on your own.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 36: Monday, October 20
Transfer from Cusco to Calca
Drive from Cusco to Calca in Peru’s Sacred Valley.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 37-39: Tuesday, October 21 – Thursday, October 23
Service Project: Sustainable Agriculture
Spend time in Peru’s Sacred Valley working with rural communities. Learn about their traditions and agricultural practices.
Meals included: All

Day 40: Friday, October 24
Ceramics Workshop & Salineras Salt Mines
Visit the Salineras Salt Mines, ancient mines that date back to pre-Inca times. You’ll also do a weaving workshop and ceramics
workshop to learn about local artisan approaches — and take some of your work home with you!
Meals included:  All

Day 41: Saturday, October 25
Transfer to Ollantaytambo
Transfer to Ollantaytambo and visit the ancient Inca Ollantaytambo ruins.
Meals included: All

Day 42: Sunday, October 26
Train to Aguas Calientes & Waterfall Hike
Take a scenic, winding train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes. Visit the Mandor Waterfalls.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 43: Monday, October 27
Machu Picchu
Visit one of the wonders of the world — Machu Picchu. Machu Picchu is completely hidden from the valley floor and is truly one of
the world’s most incredible sights. Cross a big one off your bucket list. Explore the perfect stonework of the Temple of the Sun,
the fountains of the Royal Sector, and the views from the Temple of the Three Windows.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 44: Tuesday, October 28
Travel to Patacanca & Meet your homestay
Train to Ollantaytambo & transfer to Patacanca, where you will immerse yourself in local culture with a homestay while working on
service projects. This homestay experience is often one of our students’ favorite experiences during the program!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 45: Wednesday, October 29
Homestay in Patacancha
Get to know your homestay in Patacancha and test your Quechuan vocabulary with the villagers. Depending on the needs of the family
and the area when you visit, activities could include: alpaca shearing, farm visit, medicinal plants walk — and much more!
Meals included: All

Day 46: Thursday, October 30
Transfer to Cusco
Transfer with your group back to Cusco and enjoy a free afternoon on your own to explore!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 47: Friday, October 31
Free Day in Cusco
Enjoy a free day on your own in Cusco! Today is a great day to rest and recharge amidst the travel and altitude changes.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 48: Saturday, November 1
Explore Cusco
Visit an animal sanctuary that is dedicated to rescuing wildlife and spend some time with the alpacas and llamas that graze the
land.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 49: Sunday, November 2
Free Day in Cusco
Enjoy a final free day in Cusco before having a farewell dinner with your group.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 50-71: Ecuador

Day 50: Monday, November 3
Travel to Quito
Fly from Cusco to Quito, where you’ll meet your Ecuadorian Tour Director.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 51: Tuesday, November 4
Sightseeing in Quito
Take in the city of Quito as you visit places like El Panecillo and the Church of la Compañia de Jesus.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 52: Wednesday, November 5
Visit to Yunguilla Sustainable Community
The Yunguilla community is a sustainable community where you’ll learn about local agricultural and culinary traditions and get to
try making some of them yourself. You’ll also visit the Equatorial Line and the Itiñan Museum.
Meals included: All

Day 53: Thursday, November 6
Free day in Quito
Enjoy a free day in Quito to explore or relax.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 54: Friday, November 7
Transfer to Baños
Head out of Quito and deeper into the Andes to the mountain town of Baños, famous for its hot springs.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 55: Saturday, November 8
Devil’s Cauldron & Hot Springs
Explore Baños and visit Devil’s Cauldron Waterfall.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 56: Sunday, November 9
Free day in Baños
Enjoy a free day to soak up the vibes (and soak in the hot springs) in Baños.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 57: Monday, November 10
Transfer to Tena
Transfer from Baños to Tena, a city in the Ecuadorian Amazon.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 58: Tuesday, November 11
Hike in the Grand Canyon
Get your legs moving as you hike to an impressive canyon near Tena, where you’ll really appreciate the Amazonian jungle
surrounding you.
Meals included: All

Day 59: Wednesday, November 12
Visit to Kichwua community & Amazon night
Visit an indigenous Kichwua community and learn about their history, culture, and language. Spend the evening with them.
Meals included: All

Day 60: Thursday, November 13
Whitewater rafting
Take a whitewater raft through the Amazon, taking in the jungle surrounding you.
Meals included: All

Day 61: Friday, November 14
Transfer to Quito
Return to Quito and prepare to depart for the Galapagos Islands.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Important notes on your travel from mainland Ecuador to the Galapagos:
– You will be leaving your large checked bag in Quito, where it will be safely stored until you return. You will need to travel
lightly in the Galapagos, as you’ll be traveling between islands by motorboat, which has limited space and weight capacity. Make
sure to pack everything you’ll need for the week, especially any medications you may need, in your carry-on.
– You will be given a Galapagos Transit Card by your Tour Director. This is an important document that you will need to make sure
not to lose, as it is necessary for you to enter the islands and has to be arranged far in advance.
– Make sure to follow any guidance from your Tour Director or from airport staff about what you can and cannot bring in/out of the
Galapagos. As they are a unique environment and biosystem, it is important not to bring specific types of potential contaminants
in or out of the islands.
– Once you arrive in Santa Cruz, you will be met by local Naturalists, who will be your guides throughout your time on the
islands. They are experts in all things relating to the environments and history of the Galapagos! Their presence is required for
you to visit many of the sites on your program.
– You will be traveling between islands by motorboat. If you are prone to seasickness, consider taking Dramamine or other similar
medications; sometimes water conditions are very smooth, but other days it can be quite bumpy. 

Day 62: Saturday, November 15
Fly to Santa Cruz & Charles Darwin Research Station
Take an internal flight from Quito to the island of Santa Cruz, the second-largest island in the Galapagos and home of the
islands’ largest town, Puerto Ayora. You will have lunch and start to explore the island. You’ll visit the Charles Darwin Research
Station, where you’ll learn about some of the historical and current research being done on the island. Keep exploring the island
with a trip into the highlands. You’ll visit to the Highland Tortoises Reserve, and you’ll walk through the incredible geological
formation of the Twin Craters and Lava Tunnels, formed from the island’s volcanic activity.
Meals included: All

Day 63: Sunday, November 16
Isabela: Flamingos, tortoises, & snorkeling in Tintoreras
From Santa Cruz, take a motor boat transfer to the island of Isabela. Isabela is the largest of the Galapagos Islands, and it is
known as one of the best places to take in the islands’ wildlife. The boat ride there is on a small motorboat, and the ride will
be about 2 hours. You will be bringing your luggage with you from Santa Cruz. When you arrive on Isabela, you’ll explore the
island by ivsiting a Pink Flamingo habitat and Tortoise Breeding Center. You’ll also take a boat ride around Tintoreras, where
you’ll likely spot penguins, reef sharks, turtles, sea lions, and marine iguanas! You’ll also have the opportunity to snorkel in
these waters.
Meals included: All

Day 64: Monday, November 17
Boat to Santa Cruz
Return to Santa Cruz from Isabela by motor boat. Once you arrive, spend the rest of the day exploring the island on your own or
getting some much needed rest!
Meals included: All

Day 65: Tuesday, November 18
Snorkeling in Las Grietas
Head out to Las Grietas, a spectacular volcanic rock formation filled with crystal clear water — an incredible spot to snorkel to
take in the geological formations and the underwater life.
Meals included: All

Day 66: Wednesday, November 19
San Cristobal & Snorkeling in Tijeretas
Take a motorboat from Santa Cruz to San Cristobal Island, which will be around 2-3 hours long. Visit the San Cristobal
Interpretation Center to learn about environmental issues that impact the island. Take a hike up Tijeretas hill, which marks the
spot where Darwin first landed on the Galapagos Islands! Snorkel in the pristine waters below it to see marine wildlife like
turtles.
Meals included: All

Day 67: Thursday, November 20
La Loberia and Hike to El Junco Lake
Visit the beach of La Loberia, known for its clear waters and its sea lion population. Snorkel at La Loberia, and then hike to El
Junco Lake to take in the highlands of San Cristobal. In the evening, enjoy your last meal together on the islands!
Meals included: All

Day 68: Friday, November 21
Travel to Quito
Spend the morning exploring San Cristobal before taking a flight back to Quito.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 69: Saturday, November 22
Free Day in Quito
Explore Quito on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 70: Sunday, November 23
Wrap-Up & Farewell Dinner
Spend some time with your group reflecting on all that you’ve been through together during your time on-program. In the evening,
enjoy a farewell celebration dinner.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 71: Monday, November 24
Fly home
Say your goodbyes and board your flight back to the US!
Meals included: Breakfast

TIPS TO MAKE THE BEST OF YOUR EXPERIENCE

FREE TIME

Your free days and free time are YOURS to do as you like! What you do with this time really makes your Changemaker experience your
very own. We encourage you to get out and explore the environments, towns, and cities you're in. Your EF Tour Director may also
have suggestions or optional activities that you can choose to do. And of course you will definitely want to take days just to
rest, relax, and do your laundry -- so listen to your body and take advantage of free time to rest!

TIPS TO MAKE THE BEST OF YOUR EXPERIENCE

ALTITUDE

In parts of Ecuador and Peru, you will be at very high elevation. To deal with being at high elevation, it is extra important that
you get good sleep, drink lots of water to stay hydrated, and don't over-exert yourself, particularly in the first few days of
your time at elevation. Symptoms of elevation sickness may include headache, fatigue, and nausea, so be on the lookout for these
symptoms and let your Tour Director know if you need medical attention. Note that alcohol also has an extreme effect at elevation,
so it is recommendable to drink little to know alcohol, especially during the first few days at altitude.

TIPS TO MAKE THE BEST OF YOUR EXPERIENCE

DEALING WITH INSECTS

As you go through tropical and sub-tropical climates, you'll encounter your fair share of insects, like mosquitoes! To protect
yourself from itches and from diseases that can be spread by insects, make sure to use plenty of insect repellent. We recommend
that you bring some with you, and you can also purchase repellent in most places that you're visiting if you need to stock up.
It's also a good idea to have long sleeves and long pants as options to cover more of your skin, particularly during times like
dusk, when insects tend to come out even more.




PREPARING TO TRAVEL

Packing
We recommend bringing one checked bag and a personal item, like as a backpack. Packing two weeks’ worth of essentials is ideal, as
laundry services will be available either at the hotel for a fee or at a local laundromat. You will be expected to carry your
luggage throughout the program, and some accommodations may not have elevators, so pack light! With a variety of activities and
climates ahead, packing according to the itinerary is essential. You may also visit sites like cathedrals that require modest
clothing (knees and shoulders covered).

When doing service work, you will spend most of your time outdoors doing physical labor, so ensure that you bring casual,
comfortable clothing that you don't mind getting dirty. Out of respect for the local culture, we ask that you please dress
conservatively during your service projects; depending on the project, you may not be allowed to wear tight or revealing clothing,
shorts above the knee, tank tops, sports bras with nothing over them, or leggings. While you will have less restrictions during
free time, you should always keep cultural appropriateness in mind.

Budgeting
Budgeting for your program depends on your personal spending habits. Consider daily expenses like meals, transportation, and
activities, along with personal purchases such as souvenirs. The numbers provided are only general ranges. Costs can vary based on
destination, lifestyle, and preferences such as dining out frequently or opting for budget-friendly options. Researching typical
prices in advance can help set realistic expectations and avoid surprises.

Preparing for departure
This section shares reminders and relevant links to resources like the Traveler Portal, pre-departure webinars, and entry
requirements for the countries on your program. If you have any questions, check in with your advisor!

PACKING LIST

Clothing

– Short and long sleeve t-shirts
– Athletic shorts or work pants (For service learning; prepare for them to get worn or dirty!)
– Jeans or other casual pants
– Socks and underwear
– Lightweight pajamas
– Warmer layers in case of chilly nights
– Raincoat and light jacket
– Nicer outfits (occasional use)
– Closed-toe shoes (a sturdy pair that will stay on your feet during water activities, like Crocs or Tevas. These can be purchased
cheaply on the road if needed.)
- Rubber boots (these may be necessary for some service projects and can be purchased cheaply on the road if needed.)
– Comfortable walking shoes/sneakers
– Sturdy work/hiking shoes
– Sandals/flip flops
– Bathing suits

Accessories

– Reusable water bottle
– Sunglasses
– Hat for sun coverage
– Packing cubes, optional
– Micro fiber towel / beach towel
– Work gloves
– Headphones
– Camera, optional
– Charging cables/portable charger
– Universal plug adapter
– Travel lock for luggage and belongings
– Laundry bag
– Flashlight / headlamp
– Lightweight duffel bag, or packable overnight bag, for the few instances you will be away from your checked bag. This could
double as your personal item.

Toiletries

– Toothbrush and toothpaste
– Deodorant
– Body wash/soap
– Shampoo and conditioner
– Hairbrush
– Reef-safe sunscreen
– Calendula / aloe vera for sunburn
– Over-the-counter medication (for colds and fevers, headaches, stomach aches, and motion sickness)
– Wet wipes
– Stain remover stick / detergent packs
– Contact lenses / solution / eyeglasses
– Menstrual products
– Hydration packets/electrolytes

Personal item

– Passport
Bring a photocopy as well.

– Wallet
Bring your debit or ATM card so you can withdraw cash, as well as your credit card, ID, and student ID if you have one
(discounts!)

– Medication
For prescription medication, bring the original container, copy of the prescription, and enough supply to last your program.

- Change of clothing
Spare change of clothing and essential toiletries in the event that your checked bag is delayed or lost.

– Copy of your flight itinerary and accommodations
Found in your EF Traveler Portal.

– Reusable water bottle

– Neck pillow / eye mask / ear plugs

– Primary health insurance card from the U.S.

BUDGETING GUIDE

Money management

We don’t recommend traveling with large sums of cash. You may want to convert a small amount money to the currency of your first
destination. From there, you’ll be able to access local currency by using your debit card to withdraw cash from an ATM.

In larger cities, you will likely be able to pay with your credit card, debit card, or even Apple Pay. In smaller towns, you
should make sure to keep cash on hand.

Be sure to check with your bank ahead of time and, if necessary, provide a travel notice so they don’t block the card for
suspected fraud. Also ask them about any foreign transaction fees that might apply, as these can add up quickly. We recommend
bringing a backup credit card in case your primary card is lost or stolen.

 * Costa Rica’s currency is the colón, but most places also accept US Dollars. Note that exchange rates can vary when you’re using
   cash in stores. Many places will not accept bills bigger than $20 USD.

 * The Dominican Republic uses the Dominican peso as their currency.

 * Ecuador uses US dollar as their currency

 * Peru uses the sol

Expenses

All breakfasts and some lunches or dinners will be provided on-program.

Get ready to eat lots of rice and beans, yucca potatoes, seafood, fresh fruits and vegetables, and amazing coffee! You can’t beat
the local cuisine in Latin America, and it’s usually cheaper than back home too. Lunches from local restaurants (called “sodas”)
are usually anywhere from $5-$10, whereas the nicer restaurants in the cities will be more expensive. Your Tour Directors
are great resources to point you in the direction of delicious, local, and budget-friendly food options!

We recommend budgeting between $60 to $100 each week for food. When you’re on service projects, all your meals will be included.
When you are traveling and during your free days, all breakfasts and some other meals are included.

NEXT STEPS

Pre-departure checklist

 * Confirm your Passport is valid 6 months after program end date

 * Log into Traveler Portal [https://efgapyear.my.site.com/myefgap/s/login/] and complete Profile Tab

 * Complete the EF health form [https://efgapyear.com/health-form/]

 * Enroll in the Global Travel Protection Plan [https://efgapyear.com/travel-protection/]

 * Enroll in EF’s T-Mobile Phone Plan (optional)

 * Review recommendations for traveling abroad with medicine on CDC website
   [https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-abroad-with-medicine] and consult your physician for personal recommendations

 * Review entry requirements using Sherpa [https://apply.joinsherpa.com/travel-restrictions?affiliateId=efgapyear&language=en-US]

 * Inform your advisor if you have any changes to flight gateways and travel plans to discuss policies and associated fees

 * Complete First Aid Virtual Training (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your affinity group (if applicable) (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your cohort’s WhatsApp group (~30 days before departure)

Webinars

 * Engage with your Program Advisor, meet others from your cohort, and learn all you'll need to have an incredible Gap Year on our
   upcoming pre-departure webinars. Dates and registration links are shared in advance via email.
   
   1. Welcome Webinar – Kickoff your EF Gap Year pre-departure process with helpful information and good vibes! This webinar is
      required for students and family members are invited to join. 
      
   
   2. Family Support Webinar – Calling all families! Gain a deeper understanding of EF's support structure and how you can best
      support your student while they're traveling. This webinar is for family members only. 
      
   
   3. Online Orientation – Dive into safety and wellness along with all the pre-departure logistics you'll need to ensure a smooth
      experience abroad! Students only. This webinar is for students only.

PACKING TIPS

BE PREPARED FOR BAGGAGE ACCOUNTABILITY

You will be on the move constantly, which means you will be responsible for carrying the weight of your luggage–and remember,
elevators are not common in many foreign countries. Make this easy on yourself and don’t pack more than you need.

PACKING TIPS

BE AWARE OF BAGGAGE ALLOWANCES

Bag allowances for checked bags, carry-on, and personal items vary by airline and route. Visit your airline's website to
understand their policy. It is important you stick to this limit, as your luggage will need to fit on the bus with the rest of
your cohort’s luggage. Airlines will directly charge you excess weight or additional luggage.

PACKING TIPS

CONSIDER COST OF OVERSIZED BAGS

Checked luggage sizes are generally no more than 29" in height and 45lb in weight; carry-on sizes vary by airline, so you will
want to check once you know your flight information. Please know that if your bag exceeds the weight limit, you will be
responsible for the extra cost per airline.

PACKING TIPS

REMEMBER TO RE-PACK

We suggest packing your bag once and then re-packing it, taking out a few things the second time; the pack and re-pack method will
let you do a trial run, so that you really, truly take only what you need. Trust us, there will be an opportunity to make
purchases while you travel!

PACKING TIPS

REMOVE ITEMS YOU DO NOT NEED

You do not need to bring sheets or bath towels; these will be provided. Additionally, you can buy an inexpensive beach towel once
you arrive in any beach destination.

PACKING TIPS

VERSATILITY IS KEY

Pack basics, neutral colors, and layers so you can easily mix and match. Pack items that can be dressed up or dressed down so you
can use them for multiple modules or locations.

PACKING TIPS

SNACK LIGHT

Bring a few granola bars or snacks for your initial travels, but no need to pack more food. A large part of your experience while
abroad is immersing yourself in the culture—this includes the food you eat. Who knows, you may find a new favorite food!

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL LIGHT

We cannot stress enough the importance of packing light: it is vital that you bring no more than two bags–the standard is one
checked bag and one personal item. Leave some extra room in your suitcase for souvenirs.

PACKING TIPS

BRING A FIRST AID KIT

You don't need much, but it's really helpful to bring a few things like Band-Aids and antibiotic cream. Additionally, generic
over-the-counter medicines to address common ailments are very helpful (e.g. upset stomach, motion sickness, headaches, cough
drops, etc.).

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL TAGS ARE YOUR BAG’S BEST FRIEND

Don’t forget to put a luggage tag on your bags so you can easily identify them! We also advise taking a photo of your bags before
you depart in the event they get lost or delayed.




CULTURAL IMMERSION

This section is your go-to guide for insights and tips about the incredible destinations you'll explore during your program.
Gaining an understanding of each place—its culture, customs, and everyday life—will help you engage more meaningfully and navigate
new experiences with confidence. Embracing cultural norms and traditions fosters deeper connections with locals, enriches personal
growth, and makes your journey even more rewarding. Think of this as just the beginning—let your curiosity lead the way as you
dive into your own research and discoveries! 

LOCATIONS

Costa Rica

The basics  

Nestled between the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, Costa Rica is a vibrant Central American gem known for its stunning
natural beauty, rich biodiversity, and warm hospitality. Whether you're an adventure seeker, a nature lover, or an
environmentalist, Costa Rica has something for everyone! 

A country with a unique history, Costa Rica was a Spanish colony until 1821, when it gained independence. Today, it stands out as
one of the only nations in the world without a military, embracing pacifist values and a commitment to peace. 

Costa Rica has a tropical climate with two distinct seasons—wet and dry. The wet season lasts from May to November, bringing daily
rainfall that can range from light showers to heavy downpours. The dry season, from December to April, offers sunny skies and warm
temperatures. While temperatures remain fairly constant year-round, they can vary depending on the region. 
 
Cultural norms and what to expect 

Costa Rican culture is warm, welcoming, and laid-back, making it a traveler-friendly destination. The phrase pura vida—meaning
“pure life”—is more than just a saying; it embodies the country's relaxed and grateful way of life. You’ll hear it as a greeting,
a farewell, or simply as an expression of positivity. Costa Rican Spanish also includes unique slang, such as tico/tica (how
locals refer to themselves), gallo pinto (a classic rice and beans dish), and soda (a small, family-run restaurant serving
affordable homemade meals). 

Food in Costa Rica is flavorful but not overly spicy. Common dishes include rice and beans, plantains, meats, fresh vegetables,
and an abundance of tropical fruit. Fresh fruit juices and water are typically served with meals. Tap water is chlorinated and
safe to drink in most places, but your Tour Director will advise if bottled water is recommended. Travelers may also choose to
bring a reusable water bottle to refill throughout their trip. 

Dress in Costa Rica is generally casual, though modest clothing may be expected in certain settings, especially if participating
in service projects. Tipping customs are straightforward—a 10% tip is standard, but many restaurants include a service charge in
the bill, so additional tipping isn’t required. 

Costa Rica is known for its openness to foreigners and is a top destination for American students studying abroad. The country has
a diverse population, with about 8% of Costa Ricans identifying as Afro-Costa Rican, primarily living on the Caribbean coast.
Additionally, Costa Rica was the first Central American country to legalize same-sex marriage, reflecting a growing acceptance of
LGBTQ+ rights, though attitudes in rural areas may still be more conservative. With its welcoming culture, vibrant traditions, and
emphasis on pura vida, Costa Rica offers a unique and enriching experience for American travelers 

The Dominican Republic

The basics  

The Dominican Republic is a Caribbean nation that shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti. It is known for its stunning
beaches, rich history, and vibrant culture. Historically, the Dominican Republic has been defined by colonial power
struggles, U.S. military occupation, and various political coups. Today, the quest for national self-determination continues as
Dominicans fight for a more equitable future for all citizens, as well as a stronger presence on the global economic stage.   

The Dominican Republic maintains rich cultural traditions that represent a mix of Afro, European, and Indigenous origins. Nearly
73% of the country’s population is racially mixed and approximately 6% of Dominicans can trace their ancestry back to the Taino,
the predominant indigenous group that inhabited the Caribbean before the Spanish invasion.   

While the country is known for its beaches, it is actually one of the most geographically diverse parts of the Caribbean. There is
so much to explore from bustling cities like Santo Domingo to the mountainous regions like Jarabacoa.   

Dominican food is downright delicious. Unique versions of traditional staples such as Mofongo, a mashed plantain dish, rice and
beans, and stewed chicken can be found almost anywhere in the country! 

Cultural norms and guidelines  

The Dominican Republic has a warm and hospitable culture, deeply influenced by Spanish, African, and Taino traditions. Personal
relationships are highly valued, and Dominicans are known for their friendliness and expressiveness. Greetings often include a
handshake, a hug, or a kiss on the cheek for close acquaintances. Family is central to Dominican life, and gatherings—especially
over meals—are common.  

While punctuality is expected in formal or business environments, social events tend to follow a more flexible approach to time,
known as "Dominican time." Music and dance, particularly merengue and bachata, are at the heart of Dominican culture, and baseball
is the country’s most beloved sport, with many Dominican players achieving international fame. 

Religion plays a significant role in shaping cultural norms, with Roman Catholicism being the dominant faith, alongside a growing
evangelical Christian community. Many national holidays and traditions are tied to religious observances, and while Catholic
values influence societal expectations, faith is often practiced with a blend of local customs. Regarding LGBTQ+ acceptance, the
Dominican Republic presents a mixed landscape. While same-sex relationships are legal and there is an emerging LGBTQ+ community,
legal protections and social acceptance remain limited, particularly in rural areas where conservative and religious influences
are stronger. Though attitudes are gradually evolving, particularly among younger generations, cultural sensitivity remains
important when discussing LGBTQ+ rights and issues. 

Peru

The basics  

Peru, located on the western coast of South America, is a country rich in history, culture, and natural beauty. It is home to the
ancient Incan city of Machu Picchu, one of the world’s most famous archaeological sites. Peru’s diverse landscapes range from the
towering Andes Mountains to the vast Amazon Rainforest and the arid coastal deserts. The country boasts a vibrant cultural
heritage influenced by Indigenous, Spanish, and African traditions, reflected in its music, festivals, and world-renowned cuisine,
including ceviche and lomo saltado. With a deep-rooted history, breathtaking scenery, and warm hospitality, Peru is a captivating
destination for travelers and history enthusiasts alike. 

Cultural norms and what to expect   

The mountains of Peru are stunning, but also at a high altitude. Many people come to Peru to experience the natural wonders of the
Andes, and it is important to stay hydrated and rest when at high altitudes, especially in the first couple of days of
adjustment.  

Peru has over 13,000 years of vibrant cultures and civilizations long pre-dating the well known Inca Empire. Archaeological
remains such as Machu Picchu and many more large and small are ubiquitous throughout the Andes.  

Today Peru’s population is about 32 million, with a diverse population that self-identifies as mestizo (~60%), Quechua (~23%),
Aymara (~3%), Amazonian (~2%), Black/Mulatto (~2%), white (~5%), and other (~7%).  

In terms of clothing, in the more traditional, indigenous regions of Peru, you should dress conservatively, long (knee high)
shorts or pants and tee shirt or long-sleeved shirt. The sun is extremely strong so generally people try to protect themselves
from it. You should follow their lead. Note that when speaking with locals, norms around personal space are different in Peru than
they are in the US. Typically, Peruvians will stand much closer to each other than Americans when having a conversation. 

While Spanish is the official languages, many Indigenous languages are widely used in different parts of the country, particularly
Quechua.  

Do learn common words and phrases: 

 * Hola = hello 

 * Buenos dias = good morning 

 * Buenas tardes = good afternoon 

 * Buenas noches = good night 

 * Gracias = thank you 

Lastly, tipping is appreciated but not mandatory. In restaurants, a tip of 10% is generally expected if service is not included in
the bill.

Ecuador & the Galapagos

The basics  

Ecuador, a small but diverse country in South America, is known for its stunning landscapes, rich culture, and ecological wonders.
Straddling the equator, it boasts a variety of terrains, from the Amazon Rainforest and Andes Mountains to the Galápagos Islands,
home to unique wildlife. The capital, Quito, is a UNESCO World Heritage site with well-preserved colonial architecture. Ecuador’s
culture is a blend of Indigenous, Spanish, and African influences, reflected in its vibrant festivals, traditional music, and
delicious cuisine like empanadas and encebollado. With its warm people, breathtaking scenery, and commitment to conservation,
Ecuador is a true gem of South America. 
 
Cultural norms and what to expect  

Ecuador is a diverse country, and it's important to be respectful of different regional and cultural identities. Indigenous
communities in the Andes and Amazon have their own traditions, and respect for their customs is appreciated. Ecuador was once
populated by Indigenous groups that were incorporated into the Inca Empire in the 15th century. The Spanish colonized it during
the 16th century. Therefore, Spanish is the official language, though Kichwa is also recognized. The Kichwa influence on language
and culture can be seen throughout the country. 

Learn some common Spanish words and phrases before you arrive:  

 * Hola = Hello 

 * Buenos dias = Good morning 

 * Buenas tardes = Good afternoon 

 * Buenas noches = Good night 

 * Gracias = Thank you 

The geography of the country varies and is divided into 4 main geographic regions: La Costa (“the coast”), La Sierra (“the
highlands”), La Amazonía (“the Amazon”) and La Región Insular, the region that comprises the Galapagos Islands. Each region has a
distinct geography and climate. Ecuador is one of just seventeen megadiverse countries in the world. You’ll see a lot of this
biodiversity while you’re there! It's important to respect the environment and be mindful of littering and waste. Be sure to
follow the strict environmental guidelines to protect local wildlife and ecosystems. 

The altitude in Quito and other mountainous areas can be challenging. Make sure to drink lots of water, get rest, and watch your
alcohol intake, especially during the first few days at altitude.  

In the Galapagos, you’ll frequently be on boats that travel back and forth between the islands. It’s a great idea to bring some
anti-nausea medication (like Dramamine) if you’re at all predisposed to motion sickness.  

It’s a good idea to carry toilet paper with you as you travel around the country, as sometimes toilet paper is not available or
only available for a fee in the public bathrooms.  

In some places, a 10% service charge will automatically be added to your bill. Cheaper restaurants don’t necessarily expect a tip,
but a small tip or rounding up is very welcome. 

SOCIAL IDENTITY RESOURCE

Social Identity Resource Guide

Travel provides incredible opportunities to learn about yourself, the world, and yourself in the world. But travel is also a
deeply emotional experience that can bring different challenges to every individual based on the identities they hold and
experiences they’ve had.

This resource is intended to help you think about how your intersecting identities can, and will, shape your experience as an EF
student. Take some time to review our Social Identity Resources
[https://a.storyblok.com/f/234741/x/46a3c53899/socialidentityresourcesfortravelers_2-14-23.pdf] to hear different perspectives,
learn about identity-specific resources, and prepare with helpful tips before you go abroad.




SAFETY & SUPPORT

EF Gap Year is a key part of EF’s expansive global network. With a presence in over 120 countries, 52,000 staff, 600 schools and
offices, and over 400 community partners our team has your back and is always available to help you succeed on your journey.

YOUR GLOBAL SUPPORT NETWORK

Advisor

Advisors are available for you and your family. Their role is to support you from a distance, check-in with you throughout the
program, and encourage you to achieve your goals. They are also here for parents and guardians as well. Advisors liaise with our
Tour Directors, Student Life Coordinators, and local EF staff, collectively working to ensure the success of each student’s
experience. Advisors work from 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM EST Monday through Friday.

Tour Director

Your Tour Director is the logistical and safety coordinator of the group. They are a local guide who will serve as your best
resource for logistical support, like ensuring you arrive on time for flights or helping you find the nearest ATM. They are also
there for safety purposes and can help with medical concerns or emergencies as well. In certain countries, Tour Directors may be
referred to as Field Directors.

Student Life Coordinator

Your Student Life Coordinator supports the group dynamic as well as provides individual socio-emotional support on the ground.
They will be present for the duration of the program and are available to encourage you to develop new relationships and support
you in overcoming challenges, like homesickness.

Safety & Incident Response Team

The Safety & Incident Response Team is available to all of our students 24/7 and is trained to support students in times of
crisis.

The EF Emergency Line is: 617-619-2520  

You can count on these experts, who work with a network of healthcare professionals and government personnel, to oversee proactive
operational welfare measures and provide aid to our students on program all over the world—so regardless of the time zone or
program, whatever the circumstance, whatever the hour, EF will be there to answer your call.

QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR UPCOMING PROGRAM?

Your dedicated Gap Year Advisor is here to help every step of the way.

/

https://www.facebook.com/efgapyear

https://www.instagram.com/efgapyear

https://www.tiktok.com/@efgapyear

https://www.youtube.com/c/EFGapYear

EF GAP YEAR OFFICE IN US

 * 2 Education Circle [/]
 * Cambridge, MA 02141 [/]
 * 1-800-726-9746 [tel:1-800-726-9746]
 * Directions / Opening hours [https://goo.gl/maps/bzbUyNEgfDaDAtBt7]

GAP YEAR PROGRAM

 * What is a Gap Year? [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
 * Our Programs [/programs/]
 * Our Destinations [/programs/destinations/]
 * EF Gap Year Itinerary [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
 * EF Gap Semester Programs [/programs/semester/]

ADMISSIONS & ABOUT EF

 * Admissions Process [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
 * Program Fees [/program-fees/]
 * Why Choose EF [/why-ef/]
 * Our Mission & Philosophy [/who-we-are/]
 * Reviews & Testimonials [/reviews-testimonials/]

HELP CENTER

 * Gap Year Webinars [/gap-year-webinars/]
 * Frequently Asked Questions [/faq/]
 * Pre-Departure Resources [/documents-and-forms/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * Get a Free Brochure [/brochure-request/]

 * Privacy Policy & Legal Notices [/privacy-policy/]
 * Booking Conditions [/booking-conditions/]
 * Travel Protection [/travel-protection/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]
 * Careers [/careers/]

 * © 2025 Signum International AG. All rights reserved.