 * Request a Brochure [/brochure-request/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]

Skip to main content
/
Back
 * Our Programs
    * The EF Gap Year
      [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
    * Semester Programs
      [/programs/semester/]
   
   
 * Admissions
    * Gap Planning Roadmap
      [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
    * Program Fees
      [/program-fees/]
    * Scholarships & Fundraising
      [/scholarships-fundraising/]
   
   
 * Resources
    * FAQs
      [/faq/]
    * For Parents
      [/gap-year-info-for-parents/]
    * For Educators & Counselors
      [/for-educators-counselors/]
    * College Deferral Guide
      [/college-deferral-guide/]
    * Earn College Credit
      [/earn-college-credit/]
    * Alumni Community
      [/alumni/]
    * Attend a Webinar
      [/gap-year-webinars/]
    * Gap Year Blog
      [/blog/]
   
   
 * About Us
    * Why Choose EF
      [/why-ef/]
    * Our Mission & Philosophy
      [/who-we-are/]
    * What is a Gap Year?
      [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
    * Safety & Support
      [/safety-and-support/]
    * Responsible Travel
      [/responsible-travel/]
    * Meet The Team
      [/meet-the-team/]
   
   

Get started [/next-steps/]
Menu

PROGRAM GUIDE:


THE PATHFINDER

SESSION 2: SEPTEMBER 15 - NOVEMBER 24, 2025

Itinerary [/program-guide-the-pathfinder-fall-2025-session-2/#itinerary]Packing & budgeting
[/program-guide-the-pathfinder-fall-2025-session-2/#packing-list]Pre-departure checklist
[/program-guide-the-pathfinder-fall-2025-session-2/#packing-list]


ITINERARY OVERVIEW

This itinerary is subject to change due to availability and local conditions at the time of departure.

Days 1-10: England

Day 1: Monday, September 15
Fly to London
Say your goodbyes and hit the road for your first step in your journey! Make sure you pack everything you need in your carry-on,
including your passport, any medications, snacks, and a change of clothes.
Meals included: Some meals may be included on your flight; check directly with your airline for more information.

Day 2: Tuesday, September 16
Arrive in London
After departing your home airport, you’ll arrive in London, England. At the airport, you’ll be greeted by EF staff once you’ve
passed through passport control, retrieved your luggage, and exited the security area. Settle into your hotel and enjoy a welcome
dinner with your group.
Meals included: Dinner

Day 3: Wednesday, September 17
Explore London
In the morning, have an Orientation with your group at the EF Office in London. Set yourself and your group up for success
throughout the semester with activities around goal setting and group norms — and have some fun getting to know your fellow
students and your Tour Director and Student Life Coordinator! Afterwards, take a walking tour of London to see some of the city's
most iconic sights, like Big Ben and the Parliament. Get your Oyster card and learn how to navigate London’s amazing public
transportation system, from the underground to the famous red double-decker buses.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 4: Thursday, September 18
Street Art Walking Tour & Painting Workshop
Head to one of London’s coolest neighborhoods, Shoreditch, to take a walking tour of the street art in the area. Afterwards, put
your own creative energy to the test with a fun and funky painting workshop.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 5: Friday, September 19
Day Trip to Oxford
Head out of the big city to spend a day in the town of Oxford, home to one of England’s (and the world’s) best universities. Learn
about the history of the town and the university on a guided tour. Get a feel for what academia looks like in the UK.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 6: Saturday, September 20
Visit with Founder of an Innovative Business
Meet with an entrepreneurial business leader in London and learn about the process of starting a company and running a successful
business. As an example, past groups have visited with the founder of the company Pavegen, [https://www.pavegen.com/] an
innovative business building sustainable energy solutions with its award-winning technology that uses foot traffic to generate
energy.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 7: Sunday, September 21
Free Day
There isn’t anything on the schedule today – this is one of your many free days on your program to make your experience your own.
It’s up to you to make the most of your time in London based on your own passions and interests! London has many free museums, and
it’s a great place to try lots of international cuisine if you are more of a “foodie”. You’ll have a metro pass that works
throughout your stay so it's easy to get around. Your Tour Director may also suggest optional excursions that they can book for
interested students.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 8: Monday, September 22
History of Medicine in the UK
Visit The British Museum to learn about the history of medicine and healthcare in the UK.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 9: Tuesday, September 23
Free Day in London
Enjoy another free day in London to explore the city at your own pace. Take a day trip out of the city or find time to rest.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 10: Wednesday, September 24
Q&A with a Registered Nurse about Healthcare in the UK
Learn about the nursing profession from a Registered Nurse. Hear about the differences between the health services in the US and
the UK. 
Meals included: Breakfast

Days 11-21: France

Day 11: Thursday, September 25
Travel to Normandy
Take a bus from London to the port city of Portsmouth, where you’ll take a ferry across the Channel to enter France. Stay in the
region of Caen, in France’s beautiful Normandy region.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 12: Friday, September 26
Caen Memorial and Normandy Beaches
Learn about Normandy’s unique WWII history with a local guide by visiting the Caen Memorial and Normandy Beaches, where D-Day took
place.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 13: Saturday , September 27
Visit to Mont St. Michel
With a local guide, spend a day at the stunning Mont St. Michel, an island topped by a beautiful abbey. It is a UNESCO World
Heritage Site and a big pilgrimage site to this day. Soak up its beauty & history and explore!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 14: Sunday, September 28
Travel to Paris
Take a bus ride to Paris with a special stop at Giverny along the way. Giverny is a beautiful village where Impressionist painter
Claude Monet lived and worked.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 15: Monday, September 29
Explore Paris
Take a guided tour of Paris to see some of the city’s iconic sights. Get that perfect selfie with the Eiffel Tower and learn how
to use Paris’s public transportation system.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 16: Tuesday, September 30
Free day in Paris
Enjoy a free day in Paris to explore, rest, and get your bearings in the City of Light.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 17: Wednesday, October 1
The Louvre 
Explore one of France’s (and the world’s) most incredible art museums. See the Mona Lisa — and so much more — at the Louvre.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 18: Thursday, October 2
Visit and Q&A with a Fashion Designer
Meet with a local fashion designer to learn about the fashion industry of clothes, accessories, jewelry, and hats. Learn about the
designer's process, inspiration, and career journey!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 19: Friday, October 3
Impressionist Painting Workshop
After absorbing all the art culture of Paris, do a painting workshop to flex your own Impressionist skills!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 20: Saturday, October 4
Visit to Versailles
Put on your powdered wig and embrace your inner Marie Antoinette! Explore this luxurious and (in)famous palace, once home to
French royals.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 21: Sunday, October 5
Free day in Paris
Enjoy a free day in Paris! Explore the city or take a day trip to nearby spots like the Champagne Region, the Loire Valley, or the
medieval town and UNESCO site of Provins.
Meals included: Breakfast

Days 22-28: Spain

Day 22: Monday, October 6
Travel to Barcelona
Ride the rails as you train your way to Barcelona, the largest city on the Mediterranean Sea. Take a walking tour with your TD
when you arrive to get your bearings on your home for the next week.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 23: Tuesday, October 7
Visit Park Güell
Get ready for your Insta story to blow up as you snap gorgeous pics at Park Güell. A public park filled with gardens and unique
architectural features designed by famous Catalan architect Antoni Gaudi. It is located on the southern slope of Mount Carmelo,
which is part of the Sierra de Collserola mountain range. Enjoy additional sightseeing throughout the day!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 24: Wednesday, October 8
Sports and Olympic Museum & Montjuïc Cable Car
Start your day with a tour of the Sports and Olympic Museum Juan Antonio Samaranch and a workshop on different types of sports
featured in the Paralympics.

In the afternoon, catch some air as you take your exploration of Barcelona to new heights! The Montjuïc Cable Car will take you
along a 750-meter route with unparalleled views of Sagrada Familia, the Camp Nou or the Magic Fountain of Montjuïc. The ride
culminates at the Montjüic Castle, on the top of a mountain that represents the living history of the city.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 25: Thursday, October 9
Free Day in Barcelona
Whether you visit the endless amount of stunning cathedrals, famous museums, or eat your way through tapas restaurants, you can't
go wrong when exploring this gorgeous city. This day is yours to enjoy all that is Barcelona!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 26: Friday, October 10
Barca FC Museum and Flamenco Lesson
Immerse yourself in the highly interactive Barca FC Museum, located in the famous Camp Nou stadium. Experience the history and
future of this epicenter of fútbol through sound, projection, and stunning graphics. You'll get a firsthand look at the stadium's
ongoing renovations to become the largest in Europe and second largest in the world.

Can you hear the guitars, tambourines, bells, and wooden castanets? After the museum visit, get ready to sing and dance into the
night with Flamenco lessons! No prior experience required.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 27: Saturday, October 11
Free Day
Take one last free day to explore on your own and grab those finals souvenirs and local treats before venturing to your next
country.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 28: Sunday, October 12
Paddleboarding
Goodbyes are so hard! Enjoy your final day in Spain by catching some waves as you try stand up paddleboarding out on the water!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner



Days 29-35: Portugal

Day 29: Monday, October 13
Travel to Lisbon
Your journey continues as you fly to Lisbon! You're about halfway through your Gap, so take some time to reflect on where you've
been and your goals for the rest of your program.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 30: Tuesday, October 14
Explore Lisbon
Meet up with a local guide to explore all that Lisbon has to offer!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 31: Wednesday, October 15
Azulejos Tile Workshop
One of Portugal’s artistic treasures is the azulejos. These hand-painted tiles adorn the facades of buildings, palaces, and
churches, displaying stories of Portugal’s past with vibrant colors and intricate designs. Try your hand at painting your own tile
in an interactive class!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 32: Thursday, October 16
Free Day in Lisbon
Taste a Pastéis de nata (Portuguese custard cup), ride an old-fashioned tram, and explore the colorful streets of Lisbon. The day
is yours to do what makes you happy and allows you to connect with the local culture.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 33: Friday, October 17
Day Trip to Sintra
Travel to Sintra and the coast for the day as you take in its majestic castles, palaces, and the natural beauty of the surrounding
mountains.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 34: Saturday, October 18
Free Day in Lisbon
This day is your last chance to explore Lisbon! Cross any remaining items off your list and enjoy.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 35: Sunday, October 19
Free Day in Lisbon
Rest and relax on your final day in Portugal. Conclude your free day with the group at dinner with a show with Fado, classic
Portuguese music.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 36-50: Germany

Day 36: Monday, October 20
Travel to Berlin
Fly across Europe and say hallo to Berlin!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 37: Tuesday, October 21
Explore Berlin
Meet up with a local guide to see the sights of Berlin and learn about its important role during the 20th century. Learn how to
use Berlin’s (very efficient!) public transportation system.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 38: Wednesday, October 22
Urban Sustainable Development
Germany is a world leader in urban sustainability. Visit an organization who is doing work in this field and get a better
understanding of how Berlin is tackling sustainability.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 39: Thursday, October 23
Visit to an Urban Farm
As a leader in urban sustainability, Germany has invested a lot into developing the infrastructure for urban farms. Visit one
yourself and learn about how urban farms play an important role in food security.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 40: Friday, October 24
Visit to an Innovative Business
Berlin is an incubator for small businesses and is a hub for start-ups within Europe. Visit a business and learn about what it
takes to start and run a start-up.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 41: Saturday, October 25
Free day in Berlin
Explore Berlin on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 42: Sunday, October 26
Free day in Berlin
Explore Berlin on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 43: Monday, October 27
Spy Museum Visit
Dive deep into the espionage and intrigue of the Cold War in Berlin with interactive activities at the Spy Museum.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 44: Tuesday, October 28
Travel to Munich
Head out of Berlin and drive by bus into southeastern Germany. Make your way to Munich, the capital of the Bavaria region.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 45: Wednesday, October 29
Explore Munich
Meet up with a local guide to see the sights of Munich, including the extraordinary Nymphenburg Palace, a magnificent Baroque
style palace complex, surrounded by gardens and scenic canals.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 46: Thursday, October 30
Visit to Dachau Concentration Camp Memorial
Visiting the Dachau Concentration Camp Memorial is a solemn and sobering experience where you’ll learn about the atrocities of
World War II and the Holocaust. As you walk through the preserved barracks, view the exhibitions, and reflect in the memorial
site, you’ll gain a profound insight into the suffering endured by countless innocent victims, making it a crucial historical site
to pay tribute to and remember.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 47: Friday, October 31
Free day in Munich
Explore Munich on your own! There is lots do within Munich itself or opt to take a day trip to nearby Neuschwanstein Castle, the
medieval town of Regensburg, or cross the border into Austria to visit Salzburg.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 48: Saturday, November 1
BMW Museum Tour
Hop into the fast lane as you tour the BMW Museum, where the past, present, and future of automotive excellence comes to life.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 49: Sunday, November 2
Visit an engineering company
Take a peak inside Germany's engineering industry with a visit to Hyve, an innovative engineering company at the forefront of AI.
The experience kicks off with a tour of the "Haus der Innovation," followed by a dialogue on real-world AI cases and how this
cutting-edge technology is transforming industries.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 50: Monday, November 3
Free Day in Munich
Explore Munich on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast

Days 51-57: Switzerland

Day 51: Tuesday, November 4
Travel to Lucerne
Cross the border between Germany and Switzerland by bus, taking in views of the Alps as you go!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 52: Wednesday, November 5
Excursion into the Alps
Travel by boat and by cable car to reach the top of one of Switzerland’s most beautiful mountains, Mt. Rigi. Take in the panoramic
views of the mountains and lakes around you!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 53: Thursday, November 6
Visit Lucerne
Venture into the city of Lucerne and see the sights with your Tour Director. Walk through the cobblestone streets, learn about the
city’s history, and take in the views of the lake and the mountains around you.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 54: Friday, November 7
Explore Zurich
Head into Zurich, Switzerland’s largest city. In the morning, explore the hustle and bustle of the city and enjoy relaxing
alongside the lake on your own before an evening in the city with your Tour Director.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 55: Saturday, November 8
Entlebuch Biosphere
Immerse yourself in endless moorlands, craggy karst formations and wild mountain streams at this UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Almost no other region in Switzerland has as many natural treasures as the “Wild West” of Lucerne.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 56: Sunday, November 9
Free Day in Lucerne
Enjoy spending time in the Lucerne region. You may want to explore some of the outdoor activities, like hiking or biking, or relax
at some of the area’s thermal baths.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 57: Monday, November 10
Free Day in Engelberg
Explore Engelberg on your own! An alpine town in central Switzerland, it's centered around Kloster Engelberg, a 12th-century
monastery. Don't miss out on exploring the trails, gondola, and suspension bridge to Mt. Titlis. You can even check out Trübsee, a
glacial lake, lies nearby. There's plenty to see and do!
Meals included: Breakfast

Days 58-71: Italy

Day 58: Tuesday, November 11
Travel to Florence and Cheese Tour
Cross the border from Switzerland into Northern Italy. Italy is known across the globe for its food culture, and you'll experience
that right away! You'll visit a dairy farm in Fidenza and tour their Parmigiano Reggiano processing facility. Get ready to
discover centuries-old traditions that go into making this staple food. If you're lucky, you may even get a sample!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 59: Wednesday, November 12
Food Walking Tour of Florence
Take in the sights of Florence, learning about its history, culture, and cuisine! Sample some of Florence’s most delicious and
iconic foods as you get your bearings in this stunning city.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 60: Thursday, November 13
Visit the Uffizi Gallery
Immerse yourself in art as you visit the Uffizi Gallery, a world-renowned art museum that boasts one of the most extensive and
remarkable collections of Renaissance art. Housed in a grand 16th-century palace, the Uffizi is a treasure trove of masterpieces
by renowned artists like Botticelli, Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, and Raphael. Immerse yourself in the evolution of art
history as you explore the museum’s meticulously curated galleries.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 61: Friday, November 14
Day trip to Siena and San Gimignano
Explore Siena's gothic architecture and the medieval towers found in the Tuscan hill town of San Gimignano.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 62: Saturday, November 15
Free Day in Florence
Explore Florence on your own, or plan a day trip to Venice, Verona, Turin, Cinque Terre, or other nearby areas!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 63: Sunday, November 16
Free Day in Florence
Explore Florence on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast 

Day 64: Monday, November 17
Free Day in Florence
Explore Florence on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 65: Tuesday, November 18
Travel to Rome
Travel from Florence to Rome. Take note of the stunning landscapes along the way!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 66: Wednesday, November 19
Visit the Vatican
The Vatican is a spot where history, religion, power, and politics combine. Tour the incredible archives, and see Michelangelo’s
ceiling.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 67: Thursday, November 20
Visit the Colosseum
The Colosseum, an ancient Roman amphitheater located in the heart of Rome, is an iconic symbol of both the city and the Roman
Empire’s architectural prowess. Visit the Colosseum to see where the ancient Romans hosted grand gladiatorial contests, chariot
races, and other spectacles.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 68: Friday, November 21
Italian Cooking Class
Improve your culinary prowess as you learn to cook some Italian classics! Learn some skills you can take home with you to impress
your friends and family.
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch (cook it in your cooking class!)

Day 69: Saturday, November 22
Free Day in Rome
Enjoy a free day in Rome to explore the city!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 70: Sunday, November 23
Wrap-up in Rome
Reflect on the incredible journey you've shared with your cohort and receive tools to prepare you for your transition to whatever
comes next! Conclude your program with a final dinner together in Rome.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 71: Monday, November 24
Fly home
Say your goodbyes and board your flight back to the US!
Meals included: Breakfast

TIPS ON MAKING THE MOST OF YOUR TRIP

LONDON

In a city where you'll know the local language, practice taking public transportation and getting used to free days on your own.
When you get to other cities around the world, you'll already have the confidence to do so and navigate new languages with greater
confidence.

TIPS ON MAKING THE MOST OF YOUR TRIP

FREE DAYS

Your free days are yours to do as you like! What you do with this time really makes your Pathfinder experience your very own. We
encourage you to get out and explore the cities you're in. A lot of the places you will have free time are also well-connected by
train or bus to other nearby cities or towns where you might want to take a day trip. Your EF Tour Director may also have
suggestions or optional activities that you can choose to do.

TIPS ON MAKING THE MOST OF YOUR TRIP

FEELING YOUR BEST

You're going to be on the road for 10 weeks straight -- that is a lot to go through in mind, body, and spirit! As you go through
this time, make sure to spend some of your free time taking some space for yourself. This looks different for everyone, but some
ideas for ways to rest are: take a nap, journal, meditate, take a walk/run around the city, call your family or friends back home,
take yourself out on a "date" to a cafe or a meal on your own. Remember that your Tour Director, Student Life Coordinator, and
Advisor are always resources if you're feeling down or need a little extra support.




PREPARING TO TRAVEL

Packing
We recommend bringing one checked bag and a personal item, like as a backpack. Packing two weeks’ worth of essentials is ideal, as
laundry services will be available either at the hotel for a fee or at a local laundromat. You will be expected to carry your
luggage throughout the program, and some accommodations may not have elevators, so pack light! With a variety of activities and
climates ahead, packing according to the itinerary is essential. Additionally, “athleisure” is not super common in Europe, so we
suggest assembling a capsule wardrobe. You may also visit sites like cathedrals that require modest clothing (knees and shoulders
covered).

Budgeting
Budgeting for your program depends on your personal spending habits. Consider daily expenses like meals, transportation, and
activities, along with personal purchases such as souvenirs. The numbers provided are only general ranges. Costs can vary based on
destination, lifestyle, and preferences such as dining out frequently or opting for budget-friendly options. Researching typical
prices in advance can help set realistic expectations and avoid surprises.

Preparing for departure
This section shares reminders and relevant links to resources like the Traveler Portal, pre-departure webinars, and entry
requirements for the countries on your program. If you have any questions, check in with your advisor!

PACKING LIST

Clothing

– Short and long-sleeve t-shirts
–Jeans or other casual pants
– Socks and underwear
– Pajamas
– Warmer layers in case of chilly nights
– Raincoat and light jacket
– Winter coat and gear (seasonal)
– Nicer outfits (occasional use)
– Comfortable walking shoes/sneakers
– Hiking boots
– Bathing suits

Accessories

– Reusable water bottle
– Sunglasses
– Hat for sun coverage / warmth (seasonal)
– Packing cubes (optional)
– Cross-body bag, travel/money belt, or fanny pack
– Travel umbrella
– Headphones
– Camera (optional)
– Charging cables / portable charger
– Universal plug adapter
– Travel lock for luggage and belongings
– Laundry bag

Toiletries

– Toothbrush and toothpaste
– Deodorant
– Body wash/soap
– Shampoo and conditioner
– Hairbrush
– Sunscreen
– Over-the-counter medication (for colds and fevers, headaches, stomachaches, and motion sickness)
– Wet wipes
– Stain remover stick / detergent packs
– Contact lenses / solution / eyeglasses
– Menstrual products

Personal item

– Passport
Bring a photocopy as well.

– Wallet
Bring your debit or ATM card so you can withdraw cash, as well as your credit card, ID, and student ID if you have one
(discounts!)

– Medication
For prescription medication, bring the original container, copy of the prescription, and enough supply to last your program.

- Change of clothing
Spare change of clothing and essential toiletries in the event that your checked bag is delayed or lost.

– Copy of your flight itinerary and accommodations
Found in your EF Traveler Portal.

– Reusable water bottle

– Neck pillow / eye mask / ear plugs

– Primary health insurance card from the U.S.

BUDGETING GUIDE

Money management

We don’t recommend traveling with large sums of cash. You may want to convert a small amount money to the currency of your first
destination. From there, you’ll be able to access local currency by using your debit card to withdraw cash from an ATM.

Be sure to check with your bank ahead of time and, if necessary, provide a travel notice so they don’t block the card for
suspected fraud. Also ask them about any foreign transaction fees that might apply, as these can add up quickly. We recommend
bringing a backup credit card in case your primary card is lost or stolen.

 * England’s currency is the Great British pound

 * France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, and Italy’s currency is the euro

 * Switzerland’s currency is the Swiss franc

Expenses

Meals:

All breakfasts and some lunches or dinners will be provided on-program.

Prices vary by country, but in Western Europe, cheaper meals can cost between €10-€15. On average, a restaurant will cost about
€15- €25, with nicer restaurants rising to €30 and above.

Given the percentage of meals included, expect to budget around €40 per day for meals. You may find that you go above or below
this on any given day based on the differing prices of a country, or your own personal preferences, but this is a good average to
stick with.

Note that Switzerland will have some of the highest priced meals of anywhere that you visit.

Transportation:

You have a card for public transportation included for you for all major cities that you stay in during your program. Your Tour
Director will hand this card out to you when you arrive in a new city. Public transportation — including buses, metros, trams,
ferries, and more — is often the most cost-effective and the most efficient way to get around European cities. Your Tour Director
will help you understand the basics of the public transportation in each city you visit.

Access to and costs for cabs and other ride services can vary. Cabs or ride shares can cost anywhere between €10 to €40 (or even
higher for a long distance or during a peak time), depending on your distance, location, and time of request. On average in most
cities, you will be in, a cab or ride-share will cost around €20–€25.

Extras:

We recommend budgeting up to $50 a week for extra costs. This could mean putting money aside for things like:

 * Additional items of clothing

 * Emergencies

 * Extra toiletries

 * Souvenirs

 * Laundry

 * Optional excursions: Throughout your trip, your Tour Director may find opportunities for additional excursions and activities;
   typically, these experiences can cost anywhere from €10-€50, and there may be one or two opportunities like this each week.

NEXT STEPS

Pre-departure checklist

 * Confirm your Passport is valid 6 months after program end date

 * Log into Traveler Portal [https://efgapyear.my.site.com/myefgap/s/login/] and complete Profile Tab

 * Complete the EF health form [https://efgapyear.com/health-form/]

 * Enroll in the Global Travel Protection Plan [https://efgapyear.com/travel-protection/]

 * Enroll in EF’s T-Mobile Phone Plan (optional)

 * Review recommendations for traveling abroad with medicine on CDC website
   [https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-abroad-with-medicine] and consult your physician for personal recommendations

 * Review entry requirements using Sherpa [https://apply.joinsherpa.com/travel-restrictions?affiliateId=efgapyear&language=en-US]

 * Inform your advisor if you have any changes to flight gateways and travel plans to discuss policies and associated fees

 * Complete First Aid Virtual Training (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your affinity group (if applicable) (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your cohort’s WhatsApp group (~30 days before departure)

Webinars

 * Engage with your Program Advisor, meet others from your cohort, and learn all you'll need to have an incredible Gap Year on our
   upcoming pre-departure webinars. Dates and registration links are shared in advance via email.
   
   1. Welcome Webinar – Kickoff your EF Gap Year pre-departure process with helpful information and good vibes! This webinar is
      required for students and family members are invited to join. 
      
   
   2. Family Support Webinar – Calling all families! Gain a deeper understanding of EF's support structure and how you can best
      support your student while they're traveling. This webinar is for family members only. 
      
   
   3. Online Orientation – Dive into safety and wellness along with all the pre-departure logistics you'll need to ensure a smooth
      experience abroad! Students only. This webinar is for students only.

PACKING TIPS

BE PREPARED FOR BAGGAGE ACCOUNTABILITY

You will be on the move constantly, which means you will be responsible for carrying the weight of your luggage–and remember,
elevators are not common in many foreign countries. Make this easy on yourself and don’t pack more than you need.

PACKING TIPS

BE AWARE OF BAGGAGE ALLOWANCES

Bag allowances for checked bags, carry-on, and personal items vary by airline and route. Visit your airline's website to
understand their policy. It is important you stick to this limit, as your luggage will need to fit on the bus with the rest of
your cohort’s luggage. Airlines will directly charge you excess weight or additional luggage.

PACKING TIPS

CONSIDER COST OF OVERSIZED BAGS

Checked luggage sizes are generally no more than 29" in height and 45lb in weight; carry-on sizes vary by airline, so you will
want to check once you know your flight information. Please know that if your bag exceeds the weight limit, you will be
responsible for the extra cost per airline.

PACKING TIPS

REMEMBER TO RE-PACK

We suggest packing your bag once and then re-packing it, taking out a few things the second time; the pack and re-pack method will
let you do a trial run, so that you really, truly take only what you need. Trust us, there will be an opportunity to make
purchases while you travel!

PACKING TIPS

REMOVE ITEMS YOU DO NOT NEED

You do not need to bring sheets or bath towels for any module; these will be provided. Additionally, you can buy an inexpensive
beach towel once you arrive in any beach destination.

PACKING TIPS

VERSATILITY IS KEY

Pack basics, neutral colors, and layers so you can easily mix and match. Pack items that can be dressed up or dressed down so you
can use them for multiple modules or locations.

PACKING TIPS

SNACK LIGHT

Bring a few granola bars or snacks for your initial travels, but no need to pack more food. A large part of your experience while
abroad is immersing yourself in the culture—this includes the food you eat. Who knows, you may find a new favorite food!

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL LIGHT

We cannot stress enough the importance of packing light: it is vital that you bring no more than two bags–the standard is one
checked bag and one personal item. Leave some extra room in your suitcase for souvenirs.

PACKING TIPS

BRING A FIRST AID KIT

You don't need much, but it's really helpful to bring a few things like Band-Aids and antibiotic cream. Additionally, generic
over-the-counter medicines to address common ailments are very helpful (e.g. upset stomach, motion sickness, headaches, cough
drops, etc.).

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL TAGS ARE YOUR BAG’S BEST FRIEND

Don’t forget to put a luggage tag on your bags so you can easily identify them! We also advise taking a photo of your bags before
you depart in the event they get lost or delayed.




CULTURAL IMMERSION

This section is your go-to guide for insights and tips about the incredible destinations you'll explore during your program.
Gaining an understanding of each place—its culture, customs, and everyday life—will help you engage more meaningfully and navigate
new experiences with confidence. Embracing cultural norms and traditions fosters deeper connections with locals, enriches personal
growth, and makes your journey even more rewarding. Think of this as just the beginning—let your curiosity lead the way as you
dive into your own research and discoveries! 

LOCATIONS

England

The basics 

England is part of the United Kingdom along with Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. They are united under the same monarch and
government, though each has their own parliaments. The monarchy holds a deep cultural and historical significance in England,
symbolizing continuity and national identity, with many people expressing great respect for the institution, regardless of their
personal views on its role in modern society. Be mindful not to call the whole of the UK, “England,” especially not when meeting
Scots, Welsh, or Northern Irish, as they’ll likely be offended. Study up a bit on the geography before arriving! 

Formed by the union of small Celtic and Anglo-Saxon kingdoms during the medieval period, England is comprised of several distinct
regions. Many English people identify with the region where they’re from—for example, Yorkshire, the West Country, or the
Midlands. After World War II, England became highly urbanized. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

The English are known for being punctual so be mindful of being on time for scheduled activities, meals and meet-up times
communicated by your Tour Director. You won’t want to miss “afternoon tea” which is an essential part of English culture. It's
common to have afternoon tea around 3:00-4:00pm accompanied by light snacks like sandwiches, scones with jam, and cake. 
 
While waiting in line for different experiences or even the bathroom, mind the queue. It's considered rude to cut in front of
someone who is waiting in line. You never know who you’ll meet in line, especially in London which is a melting pot of people from
across the globe. You’ll hear lots of languages being spoken and be exposed to different cuisines.  

Learn a few common words and phrases. Even though they speak English, you’ll notice new vocabulary, such as: 

 * Quid: a one-pound coin 

 * Knackered: exhausted 

 * Cheers: thanks! 

 * It’s proper good!: something is really great  

 * The loo: the bathroom  

If you fancy a pint, England has a rich pub culture, with many socializing regularly in local pubs. It's common to drink beer,
cider, or spirits. In restaurants, a service charge (usually 10-15%) may already be included in the bill, but if it's not, tipping
around 10% is customary. While out and about be mindful that cars drive on the other side of the road (compared to how we drive in
the US). Always look both ways before crossing the street! 
 
While you’ll see a lot of the city, don’t expect to see the Royal Family at Buckingham Palace! Don’t be caught as a tourist mixing
up Tower Bridge and London Bridge: London Bridge refers to several bridges built over the Thames, while Tower Bridge is the
current bridge between the City of London and Southwark in Central London. 

France

The basics 
Paris, France’s capital, is a major metropolitan area and a bustling center of fashion, cuisine, art, and architecture. Between
the busy cafes, countless art museums, and quaint streets, Paris offers an experience of French culture like no other. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

While in Paris, you will rely heavily on public transit so learn the metro or local transit system. It can be complicated at
first, but once you get the hang of it, you’ll have access to the whole city. Note that it’s not uncommon for strikes to impact
your commute. Due to the size and large population of the city, anticipate longer than average commutes from your accommodation to
the city center. As you navigate, don’t dawdle or walk slowly. If you’re lost, pop into a shop or a nearby café and reorient
yourself. In Europe, try to always walk with a purpose to avoid unwanted attention or pickpockets. 

No matter the commute, it’s always worth it as the food and wine, pivotal to the French people, will make this city a favorite on
your foodie list. Some classic dishes include boeuf bourguignon and coq au vin. Breakfasts are often small and sweet–for example,
something like bread and jam. It is uncommon to have eggs, sausages, bacon, and other typical American breakfasts in Paris. 

When entering a shop or browsing at an outdoor market, it is customary to greet the shopkeeper or business owner; A simple
“Bonjour/Hello” during the day or “Bonsoir/Good evening” at night will go a long way! Parisians value those who try to speak
French, so brush up on some common words and phrases:  

 * Bonjour: Hello, Good morning 

 * Au revoir: Goodbye 

 * Oui: Yes 

 * Merci beaucoup: Thank you very much 

 * Je m’appelle: My name is… 

 * Comment allez-vous?: How are you doing? 

 * Combien ça coûte?: How much is this? 

French people, particularly Parisians, may have a different communication style than Americans. They communicate clearly and
directly, without much cushioning or sugar-coating, which can be shocking – don't take it personally!  

Anticipate less emphasis on personal space. French people often greet one another with a kiss on the cheek and a hug (even
strangers!). Similarly, they have a much smaller expectation of (or regard for) personal space. Plus, French people love to
observe. Don’t be surprised if you catch people lounging at cafés (or in other locations) staring at you every now and then; this
is common and isn’t considered to be rude in French culture. 

Unfortunately, anti-immigrant and anti-Black racism in France is not uncommon. Students of color, particularly Black students, may
encounter verbal harassment or more attention from police. 

Overall, enjoy this romantic city and all the croissants and history it boasts!  

Spain

The basics 

Spain’s history is a mix of ancient Roman, Moorish, and global influences, shaping its vibrant culture today. In 1492, Spain’s
Catholic Monarchs finished the Reconquista, and Columbus set sail to the Americas, marking the start of Spain’s global empire.
This rich past is still alive in the country’s art, architecture, and traditions like flamenco and bullfighting. Today, Spain is a
modern democracy, with Madrid as its bustling capital and around 47 million people. 

Known for its warm Mediterranean climate, Spain offers a variety of landscapes, from the beaches of Costa Brava to the mountainous
regions of the Pyrenees. The country is made up of 17 autonomous communities, each with its own regional identity and sometimes
its own language, such as Catalan in Barcelona or Basque in Bilbao. Spain is a popular destination for travelers, known for its
cuisine (like tapas and paella), art (the works of Picasso and Gaudí), and lively festivals, such as La Tomatina and Running of
the Bulls. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Spaniards are generally warm and friendly, but interactions tend to be more formal at first, especially in professional or
unfamiliar settings. A handshake is the typical greeting, though close friends or family may exchange two cheek kisses—one on each
cheek.  

Spain’s mealtimes also differ from American norms, with lunch, the main meal of the day, typically starting around 2 p.m., and
dinner happening later, around 9 or 10 p.m. Socializing over tapas (small dishes) is common before the main meal. Tipping is not
obligatory but rounding up the bill or leaving small change is appreciated, as service charges are usually included in restaurant
bills. Excessive tipping is unnecessary. When in public, Spaniards value discretion and calm; speaking loudly or interrupting
conversations may be seen as rude.   

Religion, particularly Catholicism, plays a significant role in Spain’s cultural and historical traditions. Many Spaniards
identify as Roman Catholic, and this influence is evident in celebrations like Semana Santa (Easter) and Christmas, marked by
elaborate processions and ceremonies. While Spain is a secular state, with religious freedom guaranteed by the constitution, it’s
still important to show respect when visiting religious sites. Modest dress (covering shoulders and knees) is expected when
entering churches, cathedrals, or monasteries, and visitors should be mindful of quiet and respectful behavior, especially during
services or prayer times. 

Finally, be aware of pickpockets in high traffic tourist spots and big cities, like Barcelona or Madrid. Always keep your
belongings on your person and tucked away safely in a secure bag, especially when it’s nighttime.  

Portugal

The basics 

Portugal is known for its stunning coastline along the Atlantic Ocean, boasting picturesque beaches, charming villages, and
vibrant cities. Its capital, Lisbon, is a bustling metropolis with a mix of modernity and traditional charm, featuring cobbled
streets, historic architecture, and a lively cultural scene. Porto, in the north, is famous for its wine, particularly Port wine,
and its scenic views along the Douro River. The country is known for its warm, Mediterranean climate, offering both sun-drenched
coastlines and lush vineyards in the interior. 

Portugal’s culture is deeply rooted in its maritime past, with a history of exploration that shaped the world during the Age of
Discovery. The Portuguese are known for their hospitality, love for music (especially Fado, a soulful genre of music), and
culinary delights, such as pastéis de nata (a delicious custard tart) and fresh seafood. The country also offers a blend of
historic sites, such as the iconic Belem Tower in Lisbon and the medieval castles scattered throughout the countryside, alongside
modern attractions. Whether you're wandering through the narrow streets of Alfama or sampling local wines, Portugal promises an
unforgettable experience full of warmth, history, and beauty. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

One of the simplest ways to embrace Portuguese cultural norms is by learning and using a few common Portuguese words and phrases.
Greetings such as bom dia (good morning), boa tarde (good afternoon), and boa noite (good evening) go a long way in creating a
positive first impression. The casual oi or olá (hello) is perfect for informal encounters, while adeus (goodbye) is a polite way
to part ways. Making the effort to speak the local language, even if just a little, demonstrates an appreciation for the culture
and the people. 

Portuguese people tend to dress more modestly compared to Americans, particularly in formal spaces. When entering places like
churches or formal events, it’s important to dress conservatively and avoid overly casual attire. This shows respect for local
traditions and the solemnity of these places.  

Politeness holds significant value in Portuguese culture, and how you interact with locals can greatly impact your experience.
Finally, tipping in Portugal is appreciated but not mandatory. If you receive good service at a restaurant, leaving a tip of 5-10%
is common. In more casual settings like cafes or bars, rounding up the bill or leaving small change is a kind gesture. However,
always keep in mind that tipping is not as ingrained in the culture as it is in the United States, so it’s up to your discretion
based on the level of service you receive. By paying attention to these cultural norms, you’ll be able to navigate your time in
Portugal with respect and ease. 

Germany

The basics 

Germany, located in the heart of Europe, is a country known for its rich history, cultural heritage, and economic strength. It is
the largest economy in Europe and a global leader in industries such as automotive, engineering, and technology. Germany boasts a
diverse landscape, from the Bavarian Alps to the Rhine River and the bustling cities of Berlin, Munich, and Hamburg. It is
renowned for its contributions to art, philosophy, and classical music, with figures like Beethoven, Goethe, and Kant leaving
lasting legacies. With a strong emphasis on innovation, efficiency, and sustainability, Germany remains a key player on the world
stage while maintaining deep-rooted traditions, including Oktoberfest, Christmas markets, and a love for football (soccer). 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

The German language and traditions are what make the culture unique. The official language is “Deutsch” (German), though there are
varying regional accents and dialects across the country. Germans themselves refer to their home country as Deutschland. 

Germans are known for being hardworking and punctual, having a low unemployment rate, and drinking lots of beer (the average
German consumes approximately 140 liters of beer per year)!  

If you visit multiple cities in Germany, you may notice a stark difference between the East and the West. After World War II, the
country was split into “East Germany” and “West Germany” until 1990, when the states were unified. Today, each region maintains
remnants of that history, the West being more cosmopolitan, industrialized, and westernized, while East Germany has been
influenced by socialist and conservative views of the Soviet Union. 

Berlin, the capital of Germany, is a huge city full of creative minds and innovative thinkers. Expect a dynamic city full of art,
music, and culture. Transportation is easy to come by but remember: if you buy a transportation ticket in Berlin, you’re required
to validate it by getting it stamped before starting your journey. 

Munich, another major city in Germany, is another popular tourist destination. The city is the center of the banking and financial
industry but perhaps is most famous for its beer and annual Oktoberfest celebration. 

As you enjoy all the Germany has to offer, do not cross the road on foot while the lights are red. Jaywalking is frowned upon in
Germany, and you can even be ticketed for it. Also, do not walk in the bike lanes. While these rules may be stricter than you’re
used to, don’t be afraid to engage with the locals. When you do, get straight to the point as Germans generally do not need much
small talk to warm up to conversation and appreciate directness. Brush up on some common words and phrases: 

 * Guten tag: Good morning 

 * Sprechen Sie Englisch?: Do you speak English? 

 * Wie geht es dir?: How are you? 

 * Gut, danke: Fine, thank you. 

 * Nett, Sie kennen zu lernen: Nice to meet you. 

Don’t be surprised if a stranger asks to share tables with you in public. They may ask, “Ist dieser Platz noch frei?” (“Is this
seat free?”) When dining out or with locals, don’t start eating until your host has said that it’s time to begin. The German term
for this is, “Guten Appetit.” 

Tipping is expected in Germany, but the amount is not as high as in some other countries. 5-10% is customary in restaurants, and
you should leave the tip directly with the server when paying the bill. In cafes or bars rounding up the bill or leaving small
change is appropriate.  

To make the most of your time, don’t forget to study up on World War II history prior to your arrival. It’s acknowledged
throughout the country through statues, museums, plaques, and memorials. 

Switzerland

The basics   

Switzerland, a landlocked country in Central Europe, is renowned for its stunning alpine landscapes, political neutrality, and
high quality of life. It is home to breathtaking mountains, picturesque lakes, and charming cities like Zurich, Geneva, and Bern.
Switzerland is famous for its precision engineering, luxury watches, and world-class banking system. The country has four official
languages—German, French, Italian, and Romansh—reflecting its diverse cultural heritage. Since 1815, following the Napoleonic
Wars, Switzerland has been granted neutrality, meaning they avoid participation in wars between other states Known for its
commitment to diplomacy, it hosts numerous international organizations, including the United Nations and the Red Cross. Swiss
traditions such as cheese fondue, chocolate-making, and yodeling contribute to its unique cultural identity, making it a
fascinating blend of tradition and modernity. 

Cultural norms and what to expect  

Due to its centralized location, Swiss culture is largely an accumulation of many European cultures. Approximately 65% of Swiss
people consider themselves Swiss German, while 18% consider themselves of French ethnic descent and another 10% as Italian
descent.   

The public transportation and train system in Switzerland is fantastic (albeit, pricey). If you find yourself with a free day or
two in the city, head over to the Zurich HB for a scenic train ride to nearby hotspots, like Lucerne or Engelberg. Switzerland
makes travel easy through the Swiss Rail Pass.   

As you explore different regions, you'll notice how specific characteristics sharply define the country. For example, in the east,
you’ll find many tight-knit, German-speaking, mountain communities. In the west, you may find more French speakers. As a rule of
thumb, greet everyone you meet. This includes shop keepers, hotel staff, and even the hikers you may pass by. This is customary
and polite etiquette in Switzerland.   

As you may suspect, Swiss food is influenced by German, French, and Italian cuisine. A few favorite dishes include Rösti (a hot
cake made of potatoes and fried in butter), cheese fondue, and, of course, Swiss chocolate! 

The Swiss franc is used as currency and 1 Swiss Franc is equivalent to a little over 1 USD. Switzerland is notoriously known for
being expensive in comparison to the US. For example, at a fast-food restaurant like McDonalds, expect to pay anywhere from 12-20
CHF.  

Tipping in Switzerland is generally not mandatory but appreciated. A tip of 5-10% is common in restaurants if service is good.
However, service charges are often included in the bill, so tipping is discretionary. In cafes and bars, rounding up the bill or
leaving small change is sufficient.  

Lastly, get ready to rock your wardrobe! Swiss people value appearance and style. You will rarely see them wearing ripped jeans or
shabby clothing!  

Italy

The basics 

Italy, a peninsula in the Mediterranean Sea, is home to the epicenter of the of the Roman Empire, a major hub of Catholicism, and
the birthplace of the Renaissance. The country is known for its incredible food and history around every corner.   

The Catholic Church’s statistics suggest that 96% of Italians were baptized as Catholic, so that alone speaks to the dominance of
Catholic traditions. Whether or not you’re Catholic, you will be welcomed into the country with open arms, but it’s important to
respect the traditions, particularly when visiting religious site, such as the many towering cathedrals or Vatican City.   

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Learn common words and phrases:   

 * Ciao, ragazzi = Hey guys!   

 * Buongiorno = Good morning  

 * Buonasera = Good evening  

 * Lei parla inglese = Do you speak English?  

 * Come va = How are you?  

 * Bene, grazie = Good, thank you  

Be prepared for hugs and kisses when greeting others. It’s common to give air kisses on both cheeks when greeting others; this is
called il bacetto.  

Don’t spend too much time in touristy areas! Visit once, then explore the less traveled areas.   

In big cities like Rome, popular areas can be very touristy. It’s not uncommon for Americans to get pick-pocketed, so be sure to
keep your important documents or electronics close (we suggest a cross body or a fanny pack!). Make sure to keep your phone zipped
away, not in the pocket of pants or jacket. 

SOCIAL IDENTITY RESOURCES

Social Identity Resource Guide

Travel provides incredible opportunities to learn about yourself, the world, and yourself in the world. But travel is also a
deeply emotional experience that can bring different challenges to every individual based on the identities they hold and
experiences they’ve had.

This resource is intended to help you think about how your intersecting identities can, and will, shape your experience as an EF
student. Take some time to review our Social Identity Resources
[https://a.storyblok.com/f/234741/x/46a3c53899/socialidentityresourcesfortravelers_2-14-23.pdf] to hear different perspectives,
learn about identity-specific resources, and prepare with helpful tips before you go abroad.




SAFETY & SUPPORT

EF Gap Year is a key part of EF’s expansive global network. With a presence in over 120 countries, 52,000 staff, 600 schools and
offices, and over 400 community partners our team has your back and is always available to help you succeed on your journey.

YOUR GLOBAL SUPPORT NETWORK

Advisor

Advisors are available for you and your family. Their role is to support you from a distance, check-in with you throughout the
program, and encourage you to achieve your goals. They are also here for parents and guardians as well. Advisors liaise with our
Tour Directors, Student Life Coordinators, and local EF staff, collectively working to ensure the success of each student’s
experience. Advisors work from 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM EST Monday through Friday.

Tour Director

Your Tour Director, is the logistical and safety coordinator of the group. They are a local guide who will serve as your best
resource for logistical support, like ensuring you arrive on time for flights or helping you find the nearest ATM. They are also
there for safety purposes and can help with medical concerns or emergencies as well. In certain countries, Tour Directors may be
referred to as Field Directors.

Student Life Coordinator

Your Student Life Coordinator supports the group dynamic as well as provides individual socio-emotional support on the ground.
They will be present for the duration of the program and are available to encourage you to develop new relationships and support
you in overcoming challenges, like homesickness.

Safety & Incident Response Team

The Safety & Incident Response Team is available to all of our students 24/7 and is trained to support students in times of
crisis.

The EF Emergency Line is: 617-619-2520  

You can count on these experts, who work with a network of healthcare professionals and government personnel, to oversee proactive
operational welfare measures and provide aid to our students on program all over the world—so regardless of the time zone or
program, whatever the circumstance, whatever the hour, EF will be there to answer your call.

QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR UPCOMING PROGRAM?

Your dedicated Gap Year Advisor is here to help every step of the way.

/

https://www.facebook.com/efgapyear

https://www.instagram.com/efgapyear

https://www.tiktok.com/@efgapyear

https://www.youtube.com/c/EFGapYear

EF GAP YEAR OFFICE IN US

 * 2 Education Circle [/]
 * Cambridge, MA 02141 [/]
 * 1-800-726-9746 [tel:1-800-726-9746]
 * Directions / Opening hours [https://goo.gl/maps/bzbUyNEgfDaDAtBt7]

GAP YEAR PROGRAM

 * What is a Gap Year? [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
 * Our Programs [/programs/]
 * Our Destinations [/programs/destinations/]
 * EF Gap Year Itinerary [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
 * EF Gap Semester Programs [/programs/semester/]

ADMISSIONS & ABOUT EF

 * Admissions Process [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
 * Program Fees [/program-fees/]
 * Why Choose EF [/why-ef/]
 * Our Mission & Philosophy [/who-we-are/]
 * Reviews & Testimonials [/reviews-testimonials/]

HELP CENTER

 * Gap Year Webinars [/gap-year-webinars/]
 * Frequently Asked Questions [/faq/]
 * Pre-Departure Resources [/documents-and-forms/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * Get a Free Brochure [/brochure-request/]

 * Privacy Policy & Legal Notices [/privacy-policy/]
 * Booking Conditions [/booking-conditions/]
 * Travel Protection [/travel-protection/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]
 * Careers [/careers/]

 * © 2025 Signum International AG. All rights reserved.