 * Request a Brochure [/brochure-request/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]

Skip to main content
/
Back
 * Our Programs
    * The EF Gap Year
      [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
    * Semester Programs
      [/programs/semester/]
   
   
 * Admissions
    * Gap Planning Roadmap
      [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
    * Program Fees
      [/program-fees/]
    * Scholarships & Fundraising
      [/scholarships-fundraising/]
   
   
 * Resources
    * FAQs
      [/faq/]
    * For Parents
      [/gap-year-info-for-parents/]
    * For Educators & Counselors
      [/for-educators-counselors/]
    * College Deferral Guide
      [/college-deferral-guide/]
    * Earn College Credit
      [/earn-college-credit/]
    * Alumni Community
      [/alumni/]
    * Attend a Webinar
      [/gap-year-webinars/]
    * Gap Year Blog
      [/blog/]
   
   
 * About Us
    * Why Choose EF
      [/why-ef/]
    * Our Mission & Philosophy
      [/who-we-are/]
    * What is a Gap Year?
      [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
    * Safety & Support
      [/safety-and-support/]
    * Responsible Travel
      [/responsible-travel/]
    * Meet The Team
      [/meet-the-team/]
   
   

Get started [/next-steps/]
Menu

PROGRAM GUIDE:


THE VOYAGER

SESSION 1: FEBRUARY 4 - APRIL 15, 2026


ITINERARY OVERVIEW

This itinerary is subject to change due to availability and local conditions at the time of departure.

Days 1-22: Australia

Day 1: Wednesday, February 4
Depart the US
Say your goodbyes and hit the road for your first step in your journey! Depart from your home airport to fly to Melbourne. Be sure
to get to the airport at least 3 hours early. Because of the distance, the time zone change, and the International Date Line, your
travels will be long. Make sure you have your passport, a change or two of clothes, any medications you might need, chargers and
battery pack, and some snacks in your carry-on bag.
Meals included: Some meals may be included on your flight; check directly with your airline for more details.

Day 2: Thursday, February 5
Transit Day
Because Australia is located on the other side of the International Date Line, you’ll have an extra travel day as you travel
forward in time! With the time change, this day will (literally) fly by. Make sure to try to grab some shuteye and hydrate!
Meals included: Some meals may be included on your flight; check directly with your airline for more details.

Day 3: Friday, February 6
Arrive Down Under
Land in Melbourne, your first stop in Australia! An EF representative will be awaiting you at the airport. Enjoy dinner together
with your group.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 4: Saturday, February 7
Orientation & Explore Melbourne
Today is all about getting to know one another and your surroundings. For half the day, you will have an Orientation with your
group led by staff. Set yourself and your group up for success throughout the semester with activities around goal setting and
group norms — and have some fun getting to know your fellow students, your Tour Director, and Student Life Coordinator!

Then, join your Tour Director to explore the dynamic city of Melbourne on a guided tour and start to get to know Australian
culture.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 5: Sunday, February 8
Penguins on Phillip Island
Visit Phillip Island, known for its stunning coastal landscapes and diverse wildlife. Catch the famous Penguin Parade, where
penguins parade to the shore.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 6: Monday, February 9
Street Art Tour
Do a guided morning tour of some of Melbourne’s iconic street art. Learn about the creators of these works of art and practice
your own skills! Enjoy a free afternoon on your own in the city.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 7: Tuesday, February 10
Day Trip: Great Ocean Road and Animal Sanctuary
Get ready for a road trip! Spend a day on one of the world’s most scenic coastal drives, the Great Ocean Road. While this will be
a long drive and a good amount of bus time, you'll enjoy spectacular views of the ocean, rugged cliffs, and natural landmarks.
Take a walk on the wild side of the Great Ocean Road by immersing yourself in a walk through a wildlife sanctuary. While exploring
the magical Otways bushland, you’ll discover lush vegetation and spectacular ocean vistas. Keep your eyes out for potential
koalas, potoroos, bandicoots and many other animals!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 8: Wednesday, February 11
Free Day in Melbourne
Enjoy exploring Melbourne on your own! Your Tour Director will have suggestions for how to make the most of your time.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 9: Thursday, February 12
During the next few days, your itinerary will be divided by cohort.

Blue Cohort: Travel to Cairns
Fly from Melbourne to Cairns, the gateway to the Great Barrier Reef.
Meals included: Breakfast

Green Cohort: Travel to Port Douglas
After arriving in Cairns, head to Port Douglas, one of Australia’s most spectacular beach towns, to spend a day in the sea & sand.
Take a walking tour and enjoy some free time in town!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 10: Friday, February 13
Blue Cohort: Explore Cairns and Esplanade Lagoon
Explore the city of Cairns with a local guide. Take in the Esplanade, the waterfront area with a picturesque boardwalk, and visit
(and take a dip in!) the lagoon-style saltwater swimming pool. Get a feel for Cairns’ relaxed atmosphere, natural beauty, and
adventurous spirit.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Green Cohort: Mossman Gorge Dreamtime Walk and Daintree Rainforest River Tour
Get ready for an adventure-filled day! In the morning, visit Mossman Gorge, where you’ll take a Dreamtime Walk through the
rainforest, led by the local Indigenous people. Discover different traditions and maybe a delicious treat at the end!

In the afternoon, cruise through the rainforest on the Crocodile Express, a boat tour that exposes passengers to rare birds,
mangrove trees, and the vast network of mud banks. The Daintree River has one of the most diverse concentrations of wildlife,
insects, tropical vegetation in the world!
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch

Day 11: Saturday, February 14
Blue Cohort: Great Barrier Reef
Spend a day on the water doing guided snorkeling with a marine biologist seeing the amazing plants and animals in the Great
Barrier Reef!
Meals included: All

Green Cohort: Free Day
Enjoy a day of relaxation in Port Douglas! You can explore the gorgeous beaches, or rest after a busy day in your hotel.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 12: Sunday, February 15
Blue Cohort: Free Day in Cairns
Enjoy a free day in Cairns to rest, relax, or explore.
Meals included: Breakfast

Green Cohort: Travel to Cairns
It's time to depart from Port Douglas and hop on a bus to Cairns.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 13: Monday, February 16
Blue Cohort: Tubing through the Rainforest
Spend half the day tubing in the Australian rainforest, floating alongside towering trees, vines, and mossy rocks. Keep your eyes
open for birds, butterflies, turtles, fish, and more! Be sure to bring lunch or snacks to power you through the excursion, as
there are no food options in this remote area.
Meals included: Breakfast

Green Cohort: Explore Cairns and Esplanade Lagoon
Explore the city of Cairns with a local guide. Take in the Esplanade, the waterfront area with a picturesque boardwalk, and visit
(and take a dip in!) the lagoon-style saltwater swimming pool. Get a feel for Cairns’ relaxed atmosphere, natural beauty, and
adventurous spirit.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 14: Tuesday, February 17
Blue Cohort: Travel to Port Douglas
It's time to depart Cairns and head to Port Douglas to spend some time near the sea and sand. Take a walking tour and enjoy some
free time in town!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Green Cohort: Great Barrier Reef
Spend a day on the water doing guided snorkeling with a marine biologist seeing the amazing plants and animals in the Great
Barrier Reef!
Meals included: All

Day 15: Wednesday, February 18
Blue Cohort: Mossman Gorge Dreamtime Walk and Daintree Rainforest River Tour
Get ready for an adventure-filled day! In the morning, visit Mossman Gorge, where you’ll take a Dreamtime Walk through the
rainforest, led by the local Indigenous people. Discover different traditions and maybe a delicious treat at the end!

In the afternoon, cruise through the rainforest on the Crocodile Express, a boat tour that exposes passengers to rare birds,
mangrove trees, and the vast network of mud banks. The Daintree River has one of the most diverse concentrations of wildlife,
insects, tropical vegetation in the world!
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch

Green Cohort: Free Day in Cairns
Enjoy a free day in Cairns to rest, relax, or explore.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 16: Thursday, February 19
Blue Cohort: Free Day
Enjoy a day of relaxation in Port Douglas! You can explore the gorgeous beaches, or rest after a busy day in your hotel.
Meals included: Breakfast

Green Cohort: Tubing through the Rainforest
Spend half the day tubing in the Australian rainforest, floating alongside towering trees, vines, and mossy rocks. Keep your eyes
open for birds, butterflies, turtles, fish, and more! Be sure to bring lunch or snacks to power you through the excursion, as
there are no food options in this remote area.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 17: Friday, February 20
Travel to Sydney
Blue cohort, prepare for an early morning, as you will take a bus from Port Douglas to Cairns. From there, both cohorts will fly
from Cairns to Sydney, where you'll do a walking tour to acquaint yourself with the city.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 18: Saturday, February 21
Sydney by Land & by Sea
In Sydney, both cohorts are reunited and will take in the sights of Sydney with a guided tour by bus — then hop aboard a boat to
see Sydney’s iconic skyline from the water.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 19: Sunday, February 22
Surfing on Manly Beach
Take a ferry from Sydney to Manly Beach, where you’ll take a surf lesson. This stunning beach is a haven for locals and foreigners
alike to take in some amazing surf! Enjoy some free time at the end of the day!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 20: Monday, February 23
Permaculture in Australia
Spend a day exploring permaculture in Australia. Visit a permaculture farm and learn about the techniques, philosophies, and work
that goes into creating and sustaining a permaculture farm.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 21: Tuesday, February 24
Free Day in Sydney
Enjoy a free day to explore Sydney on your own time. Your EF Tour Director may have recommendations on optional activities you can
do.
Meals included: Breakfast 

Day 22: Wednesday, February 25
Free Day in Sydney
Enjoy a final free day to explore Sydney on your own time. In the evening, say goodbye to your Tour Director with a farewell
dinner as your group prepares for the next chapter of your journey.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 23-48: Thailand

Day 23: Thursday, February 26
Fly from Sydney to Bangkok
Board a plane to travel from Sydney to Bangkok, Thailand’s capital city. You’ll meet your local EF Tour Director near baggage
claim at the airport in Bangkok.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 24: Friday, February 27
Explore Bangkok
Explore Bangkok on a guided tour, including the iconic Buddhist temple Wat Pho and a boat canal tour with a stop at an orchid
farm. Enjoy a welcome Thai dinner with your group.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner 

Day 25: Saturday, February 28
Floating Markets and Walking Tour of Chinatown
Wake up early to make it to see one of Thailand’s iconic floating markets. You’ll see a spectacular array of local foods and other
goods for sale — many from vendors rowing boats through the canals of the market. In the evening, join a walking tour to explore
the streets of Bangkok's Chinatown neighborhood, one of the best places to taste street food!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 26: Sunday, March 1
Free Day
Spend a free day exploring Bangkok at your own pace.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 27: Monday, March 2
Visit Organic Farm & Train Market
Visit an organic farm near Bangkok and learn about farming practices in Thailand. Visit a market that is set along a train track
and watch as the vendors fold their stalls up when trains come by!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 28: Tuesday, March 3
Free Day & Night Train
Enjoy a free day to explore Bangkok on your own. In the evening, board a night train to take you to Chiang Mai in the northern
part of Thailand.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 29: Wednesday, March 4
Explore Chiang Mai
Spend the day exploring Chiang Mai and learning about the unique Northern Thai culture. See Wat Doi Suthep, a spectacular
mountainside temple just outside the city , and have a traditional kantoke dinner.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 30: Thursday, March 5
Free Day in Chiang Mai
Enjoy a free day in Chiang Mai to explore the city on your own — or take a well-deserved rest day. Your Tour Director may have
recommendations for activities for your free time.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 31-32: Friday, March 6 - Saturday, March 7
Service Learning at SEEC
Spend two days working with SEEC, the Sanpatong Experiential Education Center
[https://www.track-of-the-tiger.com/section.php?page=57], located in a rural farming village outside Chiang Mai. While there,
you’ll work with one of SEEC’s partner schools that is building small-scale infrastructure for its garden beds and mushroom house.
You’ll do art workshops, learn about local Lanna culture, and get to try rock climbing and archery on SEEC’s campus.
Meals included: All

Day 33: Sunday, March 8
Free Day & Walking Street
Enjoy a free day in Chiang Mai to explore the city on your own — or take a well-deserved rest day. Your Tour Director may have
recommendations for activities for your free time. In the evening, re-join the group to visit the Walking Street of Chiang Mai
with your Tour Director — a vibrant night market where you can try street food and buy different goods.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 34: Monday, March 9
Wat Suan Dok Temple and Home-hosted Dinner
Visit Wat Suan Dok Temple, filled with exquisite carvings and a chat with a monk. In the evening, have a home-hosted dinner with a
local family to learn about Northern Thai culture and cuisine.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 35: Tuesday, March 10
Mountain Village of Mae Kampong
Visit the mountain village of Mae Kampong, where you’ll stroll through the forests, have lunch, and visit an herbal sauna.
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch

Day 36: Wednesday, March 11
Transfer to Krabi
Fly from Chiang Mai to Krabi, in the southern part of Thailand.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 37: Thursday, March 12
4 Island Boat Trip
Hop on a traditional long boat and travel around to four islands off the coast of Krabi. Take in the impressive rock formations
and the sandy beaches. Finish an amazing day with your group at a welcome dinner in Krabi!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 38: Friday, March 13
Free Day in Krabi
Enjoy a free day to take in the sun and the sand in Krabi.
Meals included: Breakfast

Days 39 – 42: Saturday, March 14 - Tuesday, March 17
For the next few days, each cohort will be working with different service partners in either Krabi or Koh Lanta.

Blue Cohort: Nature Mind-ED in Krabi
Participate in four days of service work with NatureMind-ED [https://naturemind-ed.com/about/], an organization focused on
sustainability and environmental conservation. While there, you’ll participate in activities like a permaculture and sustainable
living workshop, work on a coral reef restoration project, and work on mangrove conservation and caring for the dugong population.
Explore the area through hikes and a visit to a bat cave. 
Meals included: All

Green Cohort: Following Giants in Koh Lanta
Travel to Koh Lanta, where you will participate in two days of service work with Following Giants
[https://www.followinggiants.net/], an organization dedicated to improving the habitat and welfare of elephants. Both EF and
Following Giants are partnered with the World Animal Protection, ensuring that any activity you are doing is safe and providing a
healthy environment for animals. There are unfortunately many tourist organizations that exploit these animals, and you’ll learn
the difference as you work side by side with Following Giants to care for the elephants. Enjoy a free day in Koh Lanta on Day 42.
Meals included: All on service days, Breakfast & Dinner otherwise

Day 43: Wednesday, March 18
Travel Day
This is a travel day for both cohorts - head to either Koh Lanta, an island off the coast of southern Thailand. Or, travel to
Krabi and start your service project at Nature Mind-ED.
All on service days, Breakfast & Dinner

Days 44-46: Thursday, March 19 - Saturday, March 21
Blue Cohort: Following Giants in Koh Lanta
Participate in two days of service work with Following Giants [https://www.followinggiants.net/], an organization dedicated to
improving the habitat and welfare of elephants. Both EF and Following Giants are partnered with the World Animal Protection,
ensuring that any activity you are doing is safe and providing a healthy environment for animals. There are unfortunately many
tourist organizations that exploit these animals, and you’ll learn the difference as you work side by side with Following Giants
to care for the elephants. Enjoy a free day in Koh Lanta after service.
Meals included: All on service days, Breakfast & Dinner otherwise

Green Cohort: Nature Mind-ED in Krabi
Participate in four days of service with NatureMind-ED [https://naturemind-ed.com/about/], an organization focused on
sustainability and environmental conservation. While there, you’ll participate in activities like a permaculture and sustainable
living workshop, work on a coral reef restoration project, and work on mangrove conservation and caring for the dugong population.
Explore the area through hikes and a visit to a bat cave. 
Meals included: All

Day 47: Sunday, March 22
Fly to Bangkok
Cohorts will reunite and fly from Koh Lanta back to Bangkok.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 48: Monday, March 23
Free Day in Bangkok
Enjoy a free day in Bangkok to check off any last Thailand bucket list items. In the evening, have a farewell dinner with your
group before heading off to your next destination.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Days 49-71: Japan

Day 49: Tuesday, March 24
Fly from Bangkok to Tokyo
Board a flight from Bangkok to Tokyo. Touch down for your first stop in Japan.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 50: Wednesday, March 25
Explore Tokyo, Old & New
Spend a day on a guided tour of Tokyo. Take in sights like the Meiji Shrine and the Harajuku Neighborhood. Have a welcome dinner
with your group.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 51: Thursday, March 26
Explore Shibuya
In the morning, take a walking tour of Tokyo’s Shibuya neighborhood, famous across the globe for being a hub for youth fashion and
culture. Cross the world’s busiest road crossing and also visit the Tokyo Sky Tree, the tallest structure in Japan. Towering above
the capital's skyline, Tokyo Skytree soars 634 meters high and gives incredible, panoramic views. In the afternoon, explore Tokyo
on your own.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 52: Friday, March 27
Akhibara & Sushi
Visit the Akhibara neighborhood — famous as a hub for the anime, manga, and gaming industries — where you’ll visit one of Tokyo’s
famous game centers. End the day with learning how to make authentic sushi in a cooking class.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 53: Saturday, March 28
Day Trip to Hachimangu Shrine
Take a day out of the city to visit the Hachimangu Shrine in Kamakura. See the Great Buddha of Kamakura and the Hasedera Temple.
Meals included: Breakfast & Lunch

Day 54: Sunday, March 29
Free Day in Tokyo
Enjoy a free day in Tokyo to explore on your own. Your Tour Director may have suggestions or optional activities for you to join.
In the evening, join your group for dinner and a karaoke evening!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 55: Monday, March 30
Free Day in Tokyo
Enjoy a free day in Tokyo to explore on your own.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 56: Tuesday, March 31
Transfer to Hakone
Transfer from Tokyo to Hakone. During your journey, take in the views of Mt. Fuji!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 57: Wednesday, April 1
Cruise & Cable Car with Mt. Fuji Views
Take in the views of Mt. Fuji as you take a boat cruise on Lake Ashi and a cable car up to Mt. Komagatake. Visit the Open Air
Museum.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 58: Thursday, April 2
Travel from Hakone to Kyoto
Take a bus to Tokyo where you'll board one of Japan’s bullet trains — which go up to almost 200 miles per hour — to travel to
Kyoto. Note that because of baggage restrictions on these trains, your large suitcase may be transported separately and arrive a
day later than you do in Kyoto. After a busy day on the roads and rails, enjoy dinner with your group in Kyoto!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 59: Friday, April 3
Explore Kyoto
Learn all about Kyoto’s past and present with a local guide. Kyoto is where you’ll see a lot of traditional Japanese culture —
think kimonos, tea ceremonies, and Zen temples. Check out castles, shrines, temples along the way. End a beautiful day with
dinner!
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 60: Saturday, April 4
Zen-day
Visit a local Buddhist temple and immerse yourself in the spiritual traditions of Japan. Tour the temple and tap in to your
unconscious mind during a guided Zen meditation session. Visit the Zen gardens. Have a free afternoon to explore the city on your
own.
Meals included: Breakfast 

Day 61: Sunday, April 5
Shinto Shrine Fushimi Inari
Walk through Fushimi Inari, a Shinto shrine famous for thousands of red Torii gates. Walk up steps and follow the pathway of gates
up the mountain to the Yotsutsuji intersection and take in the panoramic views of Kyoto. Enjoy a free afternoon.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 62: Monday, April 6
Free Day in Kyoto
Enjoy a free day to explore Kyoto at your own pace. Join up with the group for dinner.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 63: Tuesday, April 7
Day Trip: Nara Park
Visit Japan’s former capital, Nara. Stroll through Nara Park, home to hundreds of sacred wild deer.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 64: Wednesday, April 8
Travel to Hiroshima via Uji
Bus to Uji, one of Japan's main tea producing towns. Uji is ideal for tea cultivation due to its climatic and environmental
conditions such as the large difference between daytime and nighttime temperatures and the clear Uji River. Explore Uji's tea
culture and it's romantic riverside district. Afterward, bus to Shin 'Osaka to take the bullet train to Hiroshima. Note that
because of baggage restrictions on these trains, your large suitcase may be transported separately and arrive a day later than you
do.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 65: Thursday, April 9
Hiroshima & Peace Memorial Park
Get to know this renowned City of Peace by visiting Peace Memorial Park to see the ruined Atomic Bomb Dome, marking the exact
location where the atomic bomb detonated during World War II. Learn about the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing and the mission
to create a world without nuclear weapons, during a visit to the Peace Memorial Museum.

In addition, take a short boat ride from Hiroshima to Miyajima Island to view the 12th-century, UNESCO-listed Itsukushima Shrine
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 66: Friday, April 10
Travel to Osaka
Travel from Hiroshima to Osaka, the birthplace of many of Japan’s well-known arts, such as Kabuki theater and the tea ceremony.
Stop at Himehi Castle on the way. The castle is regarded as the finest surviving example of prototypical Japanese castle
architecture, comprising a network of 83 rooms with advanced defensive systems from the feudal period.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 67: Saturday, April 11
Explore Osaka
See the sights of Osaka. Visit the massive Osaka Castle, which houses a museum dedicated to Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the legendary
leader who built it. Stroll through Kuromon Ichiba Market, famous for its selection of fresh fish, vegetables, fruit, and other
Japanese specialties. Walk to Dōtonbori, one of the most colorful areas in the city and a haven for food culture.
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 68: Sunday, April 12
Free Day in Osaka
Explore Osaka on your own!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 69: Monday, April 13
Universal Studios
Spend an amazing day exploring the theme park, especially Super Nintendo World!
Meals included: Breakfast

Day 70: Tuesday, April 14
Wrap-Up & Free Afternoon
Spend the morning with your cohort reflecting on all that you’ve been through during your semester through workshops and sessions.
Enjoy a free afternoon to explore Osaka on your own. Join up with your group for a farewell dinner in the evening.
Meals included: Breakfast & Dinner

Day 71: Wednesday, April 15
Departures
Fly out of Osaka back to your home city.
Meals included: Breakfast

TRAVEL TIPS

FREE DAYS

Your free days are YOURS to do as you like! What you do with this time really makes your Voyager experience your very own. We
encourage you to get out and explore the cities you're in. A lot of the places you will have free time are also well-connected by
train or bus to other nearby cities or towns where you might want to take a day trip. Your EF Tour Director may also have
suggestions or optional activities that you can choose to do.

TRAVEL TIPS

FEELING YOUR BEST

You're going to be on the road for 10 weeks straight -- that is a lot to go through in mind, body, and spirit! As you go through
this time, make sure to spend some of your free time taking some space for yourself. This looks different for everyone, but some
ideas for ways to rest are: take a nap, journal, meditate, take a walk/run around the city, call your family or friends back home,
take yourself out on a "date" to a cafe or a meal on your own. Remember that your Tour Director, Student Life Coordinator, and
Advisor are always resources if you're feeling down or need a little extra support.




PREPARING TO TRAVEL

Packing
We recommend bringing 1 checked bag and 1 personal item, like a backpack. Packing two weeks' worth of essentials is ideal, as
laundry services will be available either at the hotel for a fee or at a local laundromat. You will be expected to carry your
luggage throughout the program, and some accommodations may not have elevators, so pack light! With a variety of activities and
climates ahead, packing according to the itinerary is essential. Certain sites, such as temples, require modest clothing (covering
knees and shoulders, with the possibility of needing closed-toe shoes). In Thailand, most airlines have a luggage weight limit of
20 KGS / 44 LBS, which is lower than the typical 50 LB limit on many other airlines, so plan accordingly.

Budgeting
Budgeting for your program depends on your personal spending habits. Consider daily expenses like meals, transportation, and
activities, along with personal purchases such as souvenirs. The numbers provided are only general ranges. Costs can vary based on
destination, lifestyle, and preferences such as dining out frequently or opting for budget-friendly options. Researching typical
prices in advance can help set realistic expectations and avoid surprises.

Preparing for departure
This section shares reminders and relevant links to resources like the Traveler Portal, pre-departure webinars, and entry
requirements for the countries on your program. If you have any questions, check in with your advisor!

PACKING LIST

Clothing

– Short and long sleeve t-shirts
– Athletic shorts or work pants (For service learning; prepare for them to get worn or dirty!)
– Jeans or other casual pants
– Socks and underwear
– Lightweight pajamas
– Warmer layers in case of chilly nights
– Raincoat and light jacket
– Nicer outfits (occasional use)
– Water shoes (a sturdy pair that will stay on your feet during water activities, like Crocs or Tevas)
–Comfortable walking shoes/sneakers
– Sturdy work/hiking shoes
– Sandals/flip flops
– Bathing suits








Accessories

– Reusable water bottle
– Sunglasses
– Hat for sun coverage
– Packing cubes, optional
– Micro fiber towel / beach towel
– Work gloves
– Headphones
– Camera, optional
– Charging cables/portable charger
– Universal plug adapter
– Travel lock for luggage and belongings
– Laundry bag
– Lightweight scarf (This is useful to carry in Thailand and Japan when visiting a temple — it can be used to easily cover knees
or shoulders/chest, a requirement in most temples)
– Lightweight duffel bag, or packable overnight bag, for the few instances you will be away from your checked bag. This could
double as your personal item.

Toiletries

– Toothbrush and toothpaste
– Deodorant
– Body wash/soap
– Shampoo and conditioner
– Hairbrush
– Reef-safe sunscreen
– Calendula / aloe vera for sunburn
– Over-the-counter medication (for colds and fevers, headaches, stomach aches, and motion sickness)
– Wet wipes
– Stain remover stick / detergent packs
– Contact lenses / solution / eyeglasses
– Menstrual products
– Hydration/electrolyte packets

Personal item

– Passport
Bring a photocopy as well.

– Wallet
Bring your debit or ATM card so you can withdraw cash, as well as your credit card, ID, and student ID if you have one
(discounts!).

– Medication
For prescription medication, bring the original container, copy of the prescription, and enough supply to last your program (click
here [https://jp.usembassy.gov/services/importing-medication/] to learn more about bringing medication into Japan). 

– Change of clothing
Spare change of clothing and essential toiletries in the event that your checked bag is delayed or lost.

– Copy of your flight itinerary and accommodations
Found in your EF Traveler Portal.

– Reusable water bottle

– Neck pillow / eye mask / ear plugs

– Primary health insurance card from the U.S.

BUDGETING GUIDE

Money Management

Overview

We don’t recommend traveling with large sums of cash. You may want to convert a small amount of money to the currency of your
first destination. From there, you’ll be able to access local currency by using your debit card to withdraw cash from an ATM. 

Be sure to check with your bank ahead of time and, if necessary, provide a travel notice so they don’t block the card for
suspected fraud. Also ask them about any foreign transaction fees that might apply, as these can add up quickly. We recommend
bringing a back-up credit card in case your primary card is lost or stolen.

Australia (Australian dollar)

Plan to budget around $70 per day for living expenses during your time in Australia. Australians are some the wealthiest people in
the world, so the cost of living can be quite high. In addition to meals, there are also optional activities you might choose to
do during your free time; depending on the activity, those can cost upwards of $100 in Australia.

Thailand (Thai baht)

Plan to budget around $20-$25 per day for living expenses during your time in Thailand. Compared to places like the US or
Australia, Thailand is an extremely affordable country.

Japan (Japanese yen)

Plan to budget around $50 per day for living expenses during your time in Japan. Japan is a place where you can find a range of
prices for food and activities.



Expenses

Meals

All breakfasts and some lunches or dinners will be provided on program.

Transportation

Many of the cities you will be in are very walkable and/or accessible with low-cost public transport. If you opt for private
transportation like Ubers or taxis, this will add to your expenses.

Extras

We recommend budgeting up to $50 a week for extra costs. This could mean putting money aside for things like:

– Additional checked bag airline fee
– Additional items of clothing
– Emergencies
– Extra toiletries
– Souvenirs
– Laundry
– Optional Excursions: Throughout your trip, your Tour Director may find opportunities for additional excursions and activities;
typically, these experiences can cost anywhere from $20-$100+, and there may be one or two opportunities like this each week.

NEXT STEPS

Pre-departure checklist

 * Confirm your Passport is valid 6 months after program end date

 * Log into Traveler Portal [https://efgapyear.my.site.com/myefgap/s/login/] and complete Profile Tab

 * Complete the EF health form [https://efgapyear.com/health-form/]

 * Enroll in the Global Travel Protection Plan [https://efgapyear.com/travel-protection/]

 * Enroll in EF’s T-Mobile Phone Plan (optional)

 * Review recommendations for traveling abroad with medicine on CDC website
   [https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-abroad-with-medicine] and consult your physician for personal recommendations

 * Review entry requirements using Sherpa [https://apply.joinsherpa.com/travel-restrictions?affiliateId=efgapyear&language=en-US]

 * Inform your advisor if you have any changes to flight gateways and travel plans to discuss policies and associated fees

 * Complete First Aid Virtual Training (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your affinity group (if applicable) (~30 days before departure)

 * Join your cohort’s WhatsApp group (~30 days before departure)

 * Complete Australian Visa (more details to come from your advisor)

Webinars

Engage with your Program Advisor, meet others from your cohort, and learn all you'll need to have an incredible Gap Year on our
upcoming pre-departure webinars. Dates and registration links are shared in advance via email.

 1. Welcome Webinar – Kickoff your EF Gap Year pre-departure process with helpful information and good vibes! This webinar is
    required for students and family members are invited to join. 
    
    
    

 2. Family Support Webinar – Calling all families! Gain a deeper understanding of EF's support structure and how you can best
    support your student while they're traveling. This webinar is for family members only. 
    
    
    

 3. Online Orientation – Dive into safety and wellness along with all the pre-departure logistics you'll need to ensure a smooth
    experience abroad! Students only. This webinar is for students only.

PACKING TIPS

BE PREPARED FOR BAGGAGE ACCOUNTABILITY

You will be on the move constantly, which means you will be responsible for carrying the weight of your luggage–and remember,
elevators are not common in many foreign countries. Make this easy on yourself and don’t pack more than you need.

PACKING TIPS

BE AWARE OF BAGGAGE ALLOWANCES

Bag allowances for checked bags, carry-on, and personal items vary by airline and route. Visit your airline's website to
understand their policy. It is important you stick to this limit, as your luggage will need to fit on the bus with the rest of
your cohort’s luggage. Airlines will directly charge you excess weight or additional luggage.

PACKING TIPS

CONSIDER COST OF OVERSIZED BAGS

Checked luggage sizes are generally no more than 29" in height and 45lb in weight; carry-on sizes vary by airline, so you will
want to check once you know your flight information. Please know that if your bag exceeds the weight limit, you will be
responsible for the extra cost per airline.

PACKING TIPS

REMEMBER TO RE-PACK

We suggest packing your bag once and then re-packing it, taking out a few things the second time; the pack and re-pack method will
let you do a trial run, so that you really, truly take only what you need. Trust us, there will be an opportunity to make
purchases while you travel!

PACKING TIPS

REMOVE ITEMS YOU DO NOT NEED

You do not need to bring sheets or bath towels for any module; these will be provided. Additionally, you can buy an inexpensive
beach towel once you arrive in any beach destination.

PACKING TIPS

VERSATILITY IS KEY

Pack basics, neutral colors, and layers so you can easily mix and match. Pack items that can be dressed up or dressed down so you
can use them for multiple modules or locations.

PACKING TIPS

SNACK LIGHT

Bring a few granola bars or snacks for your initial travels, but no need to pack more food. A large part of your experience while
abroad is immersing yourself in the culture—this includes the food you eat. Who knows, you may find a new favorite food!

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL LIGHT

We cannot stress enough the importance of packing light: it is vital that you bring no more than two bags–the standard is one
checked bag and one personal item. Leave some extra room in your suitcase for souvenirs.

PACKING TIPS

BRING A FIRST AID KIT

You don't need much, but it's really helpful to bring a few things like Band-Aids and antibiotic cream. Additionally, generic
over-the-counter medicines to address common ailments are very helpful (e.g. upset stomach, motion sickness, headaches, cough
drops, etc.).

PACKING TIPS

TRAVEL TAGS ARE YOUR BAG’S BEST FRIEND

Don’t forget to put a luggage tag on your bags so you can easily identify them! We also advise taking a photo of your bags before
you depart in the event they get lost or delayed.




CULTURAL IMMERSION

This section is your go-to guide for insights and tips about the incredible destinations you'll explore during your program.
Gaining an understanding of each place—its culture, customs, and everyday life—will help you engage more meaningfully and navigate
new experiences with confidence. Embracing cultural norms and traditions fosters deeper connections with locals, enriches personal
growth, and makes your journey even more rewarding. Think of this as just the beginning—let your curiosity lead the way as you
dive into your own research and discoveries! 

LOCATIONS

Australia

The basics 

Australia is a land like no other – full of breathtaking natural wonders, vibrant cities, and rich cultural heritage. Home to
approximately 26 million people, it has deep Indigenous roots, with Aboriginal communities thriving for over 50,000 years before
British colonization in 1788. 

Today, Australia is a diverse, democratic nation known for its stunning landscapes, from the Great Barrier Reef to the red sands
of Uluru. Sydney, its largest city, boasts the iconic Opera House, Harbor Bridge, and lively neighborhoods like Potts Point and
Newtown. With a relaxed and welcoming atmosphere, Australia offers an unforgettable experience for travelers. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Australians are friendly and laid-back but value directness and humility. Conversations often include sarcasm, so don’t be
surprised by casual teasing—it’s usually a sign of friendliness.  

Australia is known to be an expensive destination, especially in cities like Sydney and Melbourne. Tipping isn’t expected, as
wages are higher than in the U.S., though rounding up the bill or leaving 10% for great service is appreciated. When dining out
with friends, it’s common to split the bill rather than one person paying for all. Australians also take beach safety
seriously—always swim between the red and yellow flags, as currents can be strong. 

Respect for Indigenous culture is important, so be mindful when discussing Aboriginal history or visiting sacred sites like Uluru.
Australians also have a more relaxed attitude toward swearing, which is common even in casual workplaces. Public transport is
efficient in major cities, but you’ll need a contactless card like Opal or Myki to use trains, buses, and ferries. If you're
polite and open-minded, you'll feel right at home in Australia! 

Thailand

The basics  

Known as the “Land of a Thousand Smiles,” Thailand is a truly special place to visit. Thailand lies between Cambodia, Myanmar, and
Laos, with the Gulf of Thailand to its south. Its varied landscapes are extremely diverse; you’ll find everything from forested
mountains and dry plateaus in the north to river plains, sandy beaches, and dozens of tropical islands in the south.   

Thailand is a constitutional monarchy with a rich political history. The current king Maha Vajiralongkorn is the son of the third
longest reigning monarch in history and many Thai people hold significant reverence for the royal family and its symbols. Thailand
is home to thousands of stunning temples (wats) that showcase the nation’s rich spiritual traditions, so prepare for many temple
visits along your travels.  

The rainy, or “monsoon,” season roughly runs from May until November, with the heaviest rains coming in October and November. The
temperatures across the country hit their highs between March and April, with an average range of 85-95 degrees Fahrenheit in
those months, so we recommend bringing quick-dry and light clothing for comfort.  

Cultural norms and what to expect 

Thailand is a welcoming country with deep cultural traditions that visitors should respect. The royal family is highly revered,
and any criticism is both offensive and illegal. Instead of handshakes, Thais often greet with a wai (palms pressed together with
a slight bow), though tourists aren’t expected to initiate it.  

Modesty is important, especially when visiting temples—shoulders and knees should be covered. While casual wear is fine at
beaches, it’s best to dress more conservatively in cities. Always remove your shoes before entering temples or homes. Showing
respect and adapting to local customs will ensure a positive experience in Thailand. 

Street food is a huge part of Thai cuisine, offering delicious and affordable options like pad thai, mango sticky rice, and
grilled satay. Tipping is not customary in Thailand, but small gratuities for great service can be very much appreciated.   

Japan

The basics 

Japan is an archipelago with four main islands and nearly 4,000 smaller ones, known for its blend of modernity and rich cultural
traditions. Famous worldwide for anime, Japan has also fostered the otaku subculture, including gaming, roleplaying, and
cosplaying. 

Public transportation is highly efficient, with metro trains, buses, and taxis serving urban areas, while the bullet train
(shinkansen) is ideal for long-distance travel. Tokyo, Japan's vibrant capital, is the world's most populous city, offering a mix
of traditional and modern cultures. Major districts like Shinjuku, Shibuya, Akihabara, and Harajuku offer unique experiences for
travelers. The climate ranges from snowy winters to hot, humid summers, with Tokyo enjoying a temperate climate similar to
Washington D.C. 

Cultural norms and what to expect 

In Japan, respect and politeness are central to daily life. Bowing is a traditional greeting, and while tourists aren't expected
to initiate it, returning a bow shows respect. Speaking softly in public spaces is appreciated, as loud or disruptive behavior is
considered rude. Public transportation, especially trains, is highly efficient, but it's important to maintain quiet, which may be
a learning curve for American tourists who are often more outspoken. 

Public trash cans are rare, so it’s common for locals to carry a small plastic bag to hold trash until they can dispose of it. 

When visiting temples, shrines, or someone’s home, remember to remove your shoes. If you're invited into someone's home, it’s
customary to bring a small gift as a token of appreciation. Tipping is not practiced in Japan and may even be considered rude, as
service is seen as an integral part of the job. Additionally, it's polite to wait for the eldest or host to begin eating before
you start. 

Finally, although the language can be challenging for native English speakers, learning a few basic phrases is appreciated. Here
are some useful ones: 

 * Hello: Kon’nichiwa 

 * Excuse me: Sumimasen 

 * Thank you: Arigato 

SOCIAL IDENTITY RESOURCE

Social Identity Resource Guide

Travel provides incredible opportunities to learn about yourself, the world, and yourself in the world. But travel is also a
deeply emotional experience that can bring different challenges to every individual based on the identities they hold and
experiences they’ve had.

This resource is intended to help you think about how your intersecting identities can, and will, shape your experience as an EF
student. Take some time to review our Social Identity Resources
[https://a.storyblok.com/f/234741/x/46a3c53899/socialidentityresourcesfortravelers_2-14-23.pdf] to hear different perspectives,
learn about identity-specific resources, and prepare with helpful tips before you go abroad.




SAFETY & SUPPORT

EF Gap Year is a key part of EF’s expansive global network. With a presence in over 120 countries, 52,000 staff, 600 schools and
offices, and over 400 community partners our team has your back and is always available to help you succeed on your journey.

YOUR GLOBAL SUPPORT NETWORK

Advisor

Advisors are available for you and your family. Their role is to support you from a distance, check-in with you throughout the
program, and encourage you to achieve your goals. They are also here for parents and guardians as well. Advisors liaise with our
Tour Directors, Student Life Coordinators, and local EF staff, collectively working to ensure the success of each student’s
experience. Advisors work from 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM EST Monday through Friday.

Tour Director

Your Tour Director is the logistical and safety coordinator of the group. They are a local guide who will serve as your best
resource for logistical support, like ensuring you arrive on time for flights or helping you find the nearest ATM. They are also
there for safety purposes and can help with medical concerns or emergencies as well. In certain countries, Tour Directors may be
referred to as Field Directors.

Student Life Coordinator

Your Student Life Coordinator supports the group dynamic as well as provides individual socio-emotional support on the ground.
They will be present for the duration of the program and are available to encourage you to develop new relationships and support
you in overcoming challenges, like homesickness.

Safety & Incident Response Team

The Safety & Incident Response Team is available to all of our students 24/7 and is trained to support students in times of
crisis.

The EF Emergency Line is: 617-619-2520  

You can count on these experts, who work with a network of healthcare professionals and government personnel, to oversee proactive
operational welfare measures and provide aid to our students on program all over the world—so regardless of the time zone or
program, whatever the circumstance, whatever the hour, EF will be there to answer your call.

QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUR UPCOMING PROGRAM?

Your dedicated Gap Year Advisor is here to help every step of the way.

/

https://www.facebook.com/efgapyear

https://www.instagram.com/efgapyear

https://www.tiktok.com/@efgapyear

https://www.youtube.com/c/EFGapYear

EF GAP YEAR OFFICE IN US

 * 2 Education Circle [/]
 * Cambridge, MA 02141 [/]
 * 1-800-726-9746 [tel:1-800-726-9746]
 * Directions / Opening hours [https://goo.gl/maps/bzbUyNEgfDaDAtBt7]

GAP YEAR PROGRAM

 * What is a Gap Year? [/what-is-a-gap-year/]
 * Our Programs [/programs/]
 * Our Destinations [/programs/destinations/]
 * EF Gap Year Itinerary [/programs/year/gap-year/itinerary/]
 * EF Gap Semester Programs [/programs/semester/]

ADMISSIONS & ABOUT EF

 * Admissions Process [/gap-planning-roadmap/]
 * Program Fees [/program-fees/]
 * Why Choose EF [/why-ef/]
 * Our Mission & Philosophy [/who-we-are/]
 * Reviews & Testimonials [/reviews-testimonials/]

HELP CENTER

 * Gap Year Webinars [/gap-year-webinars/]
 * Frequently Asked Questions [/faq/]
 * Pre-Departure Resources [/documents-and-forms/]
 * Contact Us [/contact-us/]
 * Get a Free Brochure [/brochure-request/]

 * Privacy Policy & Legal Notices [/privacy-policy/]
 * Booking Conditions [/booking-conditions/]
 * Travel Protection [/travel-protection/]
 * My EF Gap Log-In [https://myefgapyear.force.com/myefgap]
 * Careers [/careers/]

 * © 2025 Signum International AG. All rights reserved.